There's nothing much of interest in the lobby: three striped armchairs (one of which has an upholstered arm that's coming unsewn), two tables, a crackling fireplace, and a wrought-iron chandelier. It would behoove Mr. Thènard to tell his servant to dust the cobwebs off of it, and perhaps place some books on the tables. Knowing Agathe, however, she sticks to her duties, and doesn't like to be told anything that she considers superfluous. I've seen her at the Dreamers' Inn since I was a girl, but have always avoided her. I'm relieved to see no sign of the crone in the empty dining room, which I pass on the way to the stairs.
Even when she was younger by twenty-seven years, Agathe's presence was a fearsome one. At fifty, she already appeared to be a quarter century older than that. With eyes that were nearly onyx, narrowed into perpetual slits, she terrified me and unnerved Father. "I wish I could dismiss her," he hissed into my ear when I was only seven, "but she's served here at the Inn since your grandfather's time. It wouldn't be fair. Without her wages here, she'd surely starve." Back then, I didn't think that Agathe required much to eat, with a gaunt frame that reminded me of a skeleton in a maid's dress. Her hair, brown then and gray now, is pulled back tightly into an impeccable bun. She performs her daily tasks in complete silence, or did so in my tender years, and glared at you malevolently if you so much as looked her way. Hate seemed to dart from her bottomless pupils directly into your soul, and from that moment you learned to leave her alone.
She's not here, Millicent, I tell myself as I slowly ascend the stairs. She's up in her room. You're safe now. 
Still, I cling to the wall tightly and hold my breath as I reach the second floor. The door to my room stands before me, closed and locked, and bearing a brass 2 as the symbol of my destination. I know that behind that door lies safety, and I find myself darting toward it like a hunted rabbit. I jam Monsieur Thénard's key into the lock with a hard jolt, too loud for my sepulchral surroundings, and give it a frightened twist. It takes all my power of self-restraint not to slam the door behind me once it opens, so as to ward off a sudden appearance of Agathe. Besides, I have to turn on the gas lamp. The room is suddenly illuminated, almost warmly, and I smile as I behold a quilted bed. Above it is a diamond-paned window, black as pitch, and next to me is a writing desk. Locking the door and double-bolting it for the night, I sit down at the latter.
There's nothing on the worn and scuffed top of it but a copy of the Holy Bible. More out of boredom than piety, I open it to a certain random point past the middle. Romans 6:23 immediately catches my eye:
"For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord." 
Eternal life? Why would I want such a thing, when even this temporal one of mine is pointless? Day after day, I yearn for company and occupation, yet I can't even get a position as a charwoman here in Leight. Not that I'd want to be a drudge, but one would think I could at least teach or give piano lessons. No one will trust me with their own confidence, however, let alone the welfare of their children. I am not a godly woman by any means, which brings me to the second page to which I suddenly turned - Romans 3:23:
"For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God." 
Do I not know it? Are the powers that be, whether the Trinity or other spirits, unaware of the iniquity I bear? Not only do I carry the burden of my mistakes and wrongdoings, but those of my errant forefathers. I cannot say whether Abner Dawes, the man who built the Dreamers' Inn with his own hands, was Satan's thrall or not. Nevertheless, even after Grandfather's changing our family surname from Dawes to Dawson, the stigma of our bloodline has remained. One might ask why this is so, when other people here in Leight whose kin were hanged during the Purge have had their black marks washed away. The answer is simple: they turned to Christ, and all of their feuding churches, while we Dawsons kept our faith to ourselves.
Hoping for a glimmer of salvation in the Holy Book's pages, I unconsciously turn to one more passage:
"And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment." Hebrews 9:27
Sighing, I undress for bed and climb beneath the quilt. I straightway fall into slumber, and begin to dream.
