 The effects of television violence  In Sweden, the discussion regarding television violence is relatively new. 
In recent years violence on television has increased a great deal, and many people are now starting to question what kinds of effects, if any, this has on the viewers, and children viewers in particular. 
Further, if it has any effects, what will the consequences be and what effects would those have on our society. 
Some connect the increase of violence on television with the increase of brutal violence in cities, and blames it, as one of reasons, for the more harsh climate in society. 
It is also said that television violence glorifies violence and turns it into something acceptable. 	
Children, and especially younger children, might have difficulties to understand that television violence is not for real, and they do not understand what would happen in reality if someone was hit the way people are hit in films. 
However, there are those who believe that children are able to distinguish between television violence and real violence. 
I disagree and believe television violence has negative effects on children's minds. 
When television and playstations are full of fighting heroes who are experts in martial arts, what kind of examples do we give to children. 
Boys, in particular, learn that a real hero knows how to fight, and seeing how appreciated he becomes, they learn to see violence as something positive. 
Violence can never be a positive thing, but regarding violence in movie, you can always explain to a child that what happens in a film is only acting. 
But violence in news is reality and I believe it is very important trying to explain the difference between that and violence in movies.  	
To frequently watch television violence may have effects on adults too. 
Naturally they understand that violence in movies is only acting, and realize what would happen if it was for real. 
That means they will not see violence as something normal in real life, like children might do, and that it is only on television that violence becomes acceptable. 
Still, it is a way of becoming used to violence. 
When it concerns adults, violence in news has a major role, and although it is hard to avoid, I believe it can leave a feeling of helplessness, since it is hard for one single person to do something about it.  	
I believe that television violence has stronger effects on children than on adults, and therefore the consequences is mostly involving children. 
The consequences that might follow television violence are plenty, and some are more serious than others. 
When children are used to watch violence, some will learn to hit instead of solving arguments in other ways, while some may see violence in a glorified way and believe that this is the way you are supposed to behave. 
There is a risk that violence will turn into something common and perhaps even acceptable, which means that the seriousness of violence will be erased, and when we start seeing violence as something common, it is becoming dangerous. 
Consequently, violence will become more attached to our society and trying to decrease its use will become even harder.  	
Whether or not television violence has any actual effects, I believe that it is not good to become too used to violence, neither for children nor adults, even though it is only acting and not for real. 
It is important to continue investigating whether television violence has any real effects or not, and also if it is to blame for the more brutal violence and the fact that violence has got a more important role in childrens lives now, than it had just a few years ago. 
If television violence is to blame, we know at least one of the reasons, and we will be able to change the situation by decreasing its use. 
However, if it cannot be blamed, we have to search for other reasons for the brutalization of violence, and the increased role of violence in our society.
