That is the end of the story, dear readers. Believe me or not, I don't care. I ran far away from the university that evening and, to this day, I have never returned. I had to have my arm amputated after that and my burned and mangled body remains as testament to the evil I have encountered. I told the authorities it was a college fire. What else could I say?
I cannot sleep well anymore. Every night I lie awake, shaking in fear in the knowledge of what exists beyond the limited scope of what we call "reality". What is reality? I don't know. All I do know is that this world contains more evil than can ever be imagined.
The evil of the Cult of Cthulhu is still out there and I know that my days are numbered. I have seen too much. One day they will come for me and, when they do, I will let them take me. I have tried to end my life a number of times and now reside in an asylum as a result. Death will come as a relief for me.
It has taken me a great deal of effort to write this, since every fibre of my being has tried to block out the memories of what happened at that university. But I need you to know. I need you to be prepared. The Cult of Cthulhu is alive and well and, one day, Cthulhu will rise and destroy this planet. It is only a matter of time.
﻿Darkness.
I didn't know who I was or where I was. All I could tell was that I was falling lower and lower into a deep oblivion of blackness.
Though I was unafraid.
Was I dead?
It didn't matter.
In that place, nothing mattered.
I was at peace.
And then I was jerked roughly back into reality, though reality had become so distorted in my mind that I could scarcely tell the difference between what was real and what was fantasy. The first thing that I became aware of was a searing pain across my abdomen. I tried to scream, but my throat was sore as though I had been screaming for hours already. I attempted to move my arms but they were locked in place and I realised to my horror that the pain was from ropes that had been tied around me so tightly that they were literally cutting into my flesh. I spluttered for a moment as the sights and sounds of the world started to come back to me. I was tied upside down to the obelisk in the centre of the ritual space I had seen the previous night and my worst fears were realised.
I was covered in blood, though whether it was my own or that of another unfortunate victim I couldn't tell. A fire surrounded me and on the other side of the flames, people in black robes were dancing wildly making noises that sounded neither human nor beastly. I began to wonder why I was still alive and why I had not been dismembered like Jonathan.
Then one of the participants stepped through the flames, emerging unharmed beside me. He brandished a long silver knife and screamed "Cthulhu Fhtagn!" at the heavens. The figure turned down to look at me. It was Jacob, though it wasn't Jacob's eyes that looked at me, rather an empty, soulless shell of a human being. He raised the knife and I began to pray silently, expecting the end. Though it wasn't me he plunged the knife into, it was himself. He rammed the blade up to the hilt into his stomach and violently jerked it upwards, sending gory sprays of arterial blood all over my face and into my mouth and nose. Jacob then reached into his chest and began to pull out his internal organs, laughing maniacally as he did so. It was then that I found my voice and screamed louder than I had ever done, though my cries were drowned out by the diabolical beat of the drums and the bestial chants of the other cultists.
Jacob did not fall to the ground as anyone else would have done. Instead, he cracked open his ribcage, revealing his empty chest cavity. An unseen force then ripped his head back, nearly severing it, his spine bent backwards and cracked and then his limbs began bending into odd angles as well. All the while, he continued in his demonic laughter, the chants of the cultists and the beat of the drums growing and growing. He contorted spasmodically, and shadowy tendrils sprung out of his body, twisting as they reached up to the sky. Suddenly, Jacob's body exploded in a shower of blood and offal although his ghoulish laugh seemed to continue somehow, and out of nowhere appeared many small winged creatures. They were less than three feet in height and completely black. No detail of their bodies was visible save for a pair of glowing green eyes. They swooped around the obelisk to which I was tied, uttering a shrieking sound unlike anything I had ever heard. As they shrieked, the dancing, chanting and beating of the drums got louder and wilder until, at its climax, the ground itself started rumbling. Cracks started to appear in the ground and water started gushing out causing the obelisk to crumble, but the fire burned ever brighter.
Due to the destruction of the obelisk, the bonds that were around my middle loosened slightly. But as I tried to rise, I was violently pushed down into the water by one of the cultists who cried,
"Mighty Cthulhu! Accept our sacrifice of blood and rise again!" With that he drew a knife of his own, but before he was able to end my existence, one of the shadowy winged creatures flew into his chest, disappearing in an instant. Suddenly, the cultists' eyes literally burst into flames and he began reciting the chant I had heard so many times: "Cthulhu Fhtagn! Cthulhu Fhtagn!" His mouth then opened wide and I could hear his jaw bone break. Long teeth extended from the gums and before I could react, he lurched forward sinking them into my forearm.
This new pain was just what I needed. I screamed in agony and ripped free. Quickly loosening the bonds around me, I leapt through the fire. Its searing heat scorched me and I felt as though a thousand knives were simultaneously being plunged into my skin. I looked desperately around for an opening to escape and noticed that all the cultists now had flaming eyes and were running at me screaming even as their heads burned in the flames from their eyes. I turned and fled, not caring about the pain in my arm or the fire that was rapidly consuming me. Not caring about the thorns and branches that eviscerated me as I ran past them. I knew I just needed to get as far away as possible.
Although the screams of the ritual participants had begun to fade, I did not slow down. I just kept going and did not look back.
