                         I agree.
                 Paw of cat the chestnut snatches;
                 Worn-out garments show new patches;
                 Only count the chick that hatches;
                 Men are grown-up catchy-catchies.

                    Yes, I know,
                         That is so.
         Though to catch my drift he's striving,
                   I'll dissemble--I'll dissemble;
                 When he sees at what I'm driving,
                   Let him tremble--let him tremble!

                             
                 Though a mystic tone { I } borrow,
                                       you
                 You will } learn the truth with sorrow,
                 I shall
                 Here to-day and gone to-morrow;
                    Yes, I know--
              That is so!
                       

     Incomprehensible as her utterances are, I nevertheless
  feel that they are dictated by a sincere regard for me. But to what new
  misery is she referring? Time alone can tell!

                            

  Captain Corcoran, I am much disappointed with your
  daughter. In fact, I don't think she will do.

    She won't do, Sir Joseph!

     I'm afraid not. The fact is, that although I have
  urged my suit with as much eloquence as is consistent with an official
  utterance, I have done so hitherto without success. How do you account for
  this?

    Really, Sir Joseph, I hardly know. Josephine is of course
  sensible of your condescension.

     She naturally would be.

     But perhaps your exalted rank dazzles her.

     You think it does?

    I can hardly say; but she is a modest girl, and her
  social position is far below your own. It may be that she feels she is
  not worthy of you.

     That is really a very sensible suggestion, and
  displays more knowledge of human nature than I had given you credit for.

    See, she comes. If your lordship would kindly reason with
  her and assure her officially that it is a standing rule at the Admiralty
  that love levels all ranks, her respect for an official utterance
  might induce
