 I wanted to talk to you. 

 I could have talked to you from the
hall. You're silly to take chances just now.

You'll be stayin' a while now,
Fred? I'll take a walk down the road. I'm needin' a drink to clear my
wits.

You won't be long, Father? And please
don't--you know.

Sure who wouldn't get drunk with all the
sorrows of the world piled on him?

Honestly, Eileen, your father is the limit. I don't see
how you stand for him. He's the most selfish----

Sssh! You mustn't, Fred. He's not to blame. He just
doesn't understand. Don't! Let's not talk about him now. We won't have many more evenings together for a
long, long time. Did father or the Doctor tell you---- 

 Everything there was to tell, I guess.

You mustn't worry, Fred. Please
don't! It'd make it so much worse for me if I thought you did. I'll be
all right. I'll do exactly what they tell me, and in a few months I'll
be back so fat and healthy you won't know me.

Oh, there's no doubt of that. No one's worrying
about your not getting well quick.

 It won't be long. We can write often, and it isn't far away.
You can come out and see me every Sunday--if you want to.

Of course I will!

Why do you act so funny?
Why don't you sit down--here, by me? Don't you want to?

I--I'm all
flustered, Eileen. I don't know what I'm doing.

Poor Fred! I'm so sorry I have
to go. I didn't want to at first. I knew how hard it would be on father
and the kids--especially little Mary. And then the doctor said if I stayed I'd be putting them all in danger. He
even ordered me not to kiss them any more. So I've got to go and get
well, don't you see?

Yes--it's better.

I'll miss the kids so much. Taking care of them has
meant so much to me since mother died.  But I'll
miss you most of all, Fred. Fred! Why--why didn't
you kiss--what is it? Are you--afraid? Oooh!

No! What--what d'you mean?

No, no, you mustn't! I was wrong. The doctor told you not
to, didn't he? Please don't, Fred! It would be awful if anything
happened to you--through me. But you can kiss me on the forehead, Fred. That
can't do any harm. It seems so silly--being kissed that way--by you. (_She
gulps back a sob and continued to attempt to joke._) I'll have to get
used to it, won't I?
