                        
Don't be alarmed--it's not serious.  It is arranged
  that, until it is decided which of us two is the actual King, we
  are to act as one person.

Exactly.

Now, although we act as one person, we are, in point of fact, two persons.

Ah, I don't think we can go into that.  It is a
  legal fiction, and legal fictions are solemn things.  Situated as
  we are, we can't recognize two independent responsibilities.

 No; but you can recognize two independent appetites.
  It's all very well to say we act as one person, but when you
  supply us with only one ration between us, I should describe it
  as a legal fiction carried a little too far.

 It's rather a nice point.  I don't like to express an
  opinion off-hand.  Suppose we reserve it for argument before the
  full Court?

 Yes, but what are we to do in the meantime?

We want our tea.

I think we may make an interim order for double
  rations on their Majesties entering into the usual undertaking to
  indemnify in the event of an adverse decision?

That, I think, will meet the case.  But you must work
  hard--stick to it--nothing like work.

Oh, certainly.  We quite understand that a man who
  holds the magnificent position of King should do something to
  justify it.  We are called "Your Majesty"; we are allowed to buy
  ourselves magnificent clothes; our subjects frequently nod to us
  in the streets; the sentries always return our salutes; and we
  enjoy the inestimable privilege of heading the subscription lists
  to all the principal charities.  In return for these advantages
  the least we can do is to make ourselves useful about the Palace.
                   

  Rising early in the morning,
 We proceed to light the fire,
  Then our Majesty adorning
       In its workaday attire,
            We embark without delay
            On the duties of the day.

  First, we polish off some batches
  Of political despatches,
       And foreign politicians circumvent;
  Then, if business isn't heavy,
  We may hold a Royal levee,
       Or ratify some Acts of Parliament.
       Then we probably review the household troops--
       With the usual "Shalloo humps!" and "Shalloo hoops!"
       Or receive with ceremonial and state
  An interesting Eastern potentate.
       
