          In short, if you'd kindle
                 The spark of a swindle,
                      Lure simpletons into your clutches--
                           Yes; into your clutches.
                 Or hoodwink a debtor,
                 You cannot do better

              Than trot out a Duke or a Duchess--

                 A Duke or a Duchess!

 Ah!  Their Majesties.  Your Majesty!  

    The Duke of Plaza-Toro, I believe?

   The same. Allow me to present--

 The young lady one of us married?

       CAS.  Gentlemen, I am the most obedient servant of one of
  you.  Oh, Luiz!

   I am now about to address myself to the gentleman
  whom my daughter married; the other may allow his attention to
  wander if he likes, for what I am about to say does not concern
  him.  Sir, you will find in this young lady a combination of
  excellences which you would search for in vain in any young lady
  who had not the good fortune to be my daughter.  There is some
  little doubt as to which of you is the gentleman I am addressing,
  and which is the gentleman who is allowing his attention to
  wander; but when that doubt is solved, I shall say , "Take her, and may she make
  you happier than her mother has made me."

     Sir!

    If possible.  And now there is a little matter to
  which I think I am entitled to take exception.  I come here in
  state with Her Grace the Duchess and Her Majesty my daughter, and
  what do I find?  Do I find, for instance, a guard of honour to
  receive me?  No!

    No.

    The town illuminated?  No!

    No.

     
  Refreshment provided?  No!

   No.

    A Royal salute fired?  No!
   
  No.

 Triumphal arches erected?  No!

No.

The bells set ringing?

 No.

 Yes--one--the Visitors', and I rang it myself.  It is
  not enough!  It is not enough!

Upon my honour, I'm very sorry; but you see, I was
  brought up in a gondola, and my ideas of politeness are confined
  to taking off my cap to my passengers when they tip me.

That's all very well in its way, but it is not enough.
