A few weeks after the attack, The Campus of Miskatonic has been repaired, but due to constant problems of security the place is in a state where there are not students and the fate of the school is unknown. "Sire…that thing wants to talk to you" inside the echo of the one of a few teachers that decided to stay and discuss what the will be of this Miskatonic. Johnathan Clarke tries to silence this caller "don't say anything you fool, if they know I have an outer god, they will do anything to use it in the wrong ways" –"but you are the only one that can command him, oh…when I think 'bout it they can persuade you to use it." –"exactly!" their conversation was interrupted when a grizzled voice started the mind of John: "come, I want to know the new orders" the young teacher moves to the basement "Azathoth…it's been weeks since I saw you, how you been doing?" the canned god chuckled "fine doin' nothin' but wait till you came, my young sire, in fact I have an idea, what if I go to Innsmouth and I kill dagon to stop further attacks" –"no that would be a terrible idea. What if we both go and try to talk to them, you know some sort of treaty we could have peace" the outer god laughs "Master! Such an altruistic nature! And far too foolish" –"did you say something?" the cylindrical monster says nothing and continues to listen: "we will go anyways, can you change into something small?" suddenly Azathoth's red and cylindrical form started to melt without any source of heat, just leaving this "brain" the container cubes. "It's this enough small for you?"
John goes to this home close to the Miskatonic River; he carefully puts this bag in this bed, and putting out Azathoth, "well, can I change into my normal self, sire?" the young man grabbed the two epilated cubes, looked into the small circular window of the cube on the top and nodded, "very well, careful now" John put the cube in the floor and it started to reconfigure itself into this red, mechanical and cylinder shaped form, "so, what will we do?" azathoth, asked, "well I will try to talk to their leader, if that doesn't work you will kill both Dagon and Hydra, I just want to know why did they attacked us" the metallic creature patted this back "anything for you sire, talkin' 'bout yourself, can you tell me about you?" John seated on the bed: "well, I… (Damn, if he knows I am "adopted" he will kill me!)W-well, I lived in Innsmouth for a few years, then when I grew up my father decided to move to Kingsport, I never saw my mother, he told me that she could kill me, maybe she was a terrible and ungrateful bitch" Azathoth decided to speak "I wonder if she was…" he trailed off after thinking about what he was about to say, "if she was what? A prostitute?" Azathoth "nodded" by moving this body. "For the rest of the day I need to pack, Jesus, I expect not to have any problems with the villagers" Azathoth then said; "sire…why you want to save inhuman creatures? Or even negotiate with them? Rubbish…no, Bullshit! They hate humans, and when they saw that investigator they knew that we were the ones that called, so it's a matter of fact that they felt we were a menace, your little travel to innsmouth its pointless master!" john then raised from the bed and looked the god directly to this cat like iris, he shivered but he gained some courage to speak to him: "no, it's not, and don't dare to disobey me azathoth. I want peace between eldritch creatures and humans imagine the possibilities! We could get better technology, better understanding of this universe!" this mechanic companion chuckled: "don't be silly, the eldritch just want the earth for themselves. Gods and aliens are very different: the outer and elders don't give a flying fuck 'bout humans, they see us as useless ants, even my son amuses himself with the lot of you, aliens on the other hand want to use us as things to guinea pigs (well the intelligent ones)" after a few minutes of silence night comes and john goes to sleep. While azathoth goes into this box form. "I expect to make those deep ones into deep fish sticks tomorrow. hahaha"
The next day john goes in boat to innsmouth, after a voyage of an entire day. then after that they got on a train. The next day after that john arrived in Innsmouth, he saw that the place has little to no changes, the buildings were crude and crocked, some of them were derelict, and the habitants were mutated humans. The sky was grey to make the mood even more depressing. John decided to talk to a habitant, "sire, can you tell me where I can the mayor of this place? I need to tell him something really important" the man like many of this brethren was human like, but this eyes were close to popping out of this skull, this skin was greyish, this lips were thicker than the normal man and he had no hair, "what? You are a foreigner, why you should talk to our mayor? Are you some kind of important person o' what?" –"I'm not "important" by any rich standards but…no forget about it" Clarke decided to sit on a nearby bench to take out the cubes, they were gun metal grey with vertical lines sculpted on each one, he looked at the cube and started to think "Azathoth…if you can hear me confirm it" –"yes master, what are your commands?" –"shape shift your box with some legs, I will ask where is the place where the ruler of this place lives, but you will convince him to talk to me, I am clear?" –"crystal…not need to worry, I can convince him by words… (shifts the corners of this cube to muscular legs with three digits) or by force" he quickly moves to a bush close to this master, he walked to other citizen "I want to know the place where the mayor lives or he is in the most of time, you know, to interview him" -"w-well…he always is in the building that is the Esoteric Order of Dagon, a few blocks at the right, I thin' is in the center of the town" Clarke continued walking, he sees that this servant is not present. "Outer god, or I am very stupid and I lost you, or you are very fast" –"it would be the latter" he saw the cube in this hands. "We are close, stay alert" after a few minutes of asking for directions they find the infamous building, it was unlike some of the other depressing and colorless buildings, it was tall and with a rusted cooper coloration.
"Ok, try to be the most menacing possible, make them know what will happen if the give me a no" John Clarke said as he tossed the gunmetal grey cubes to the wall of the building. "Sire, I am a 7 ft. tall mechanoid, with a knife the same size as your head, I have a heavy machine gun that is the same size of my body, and my eye made you tremble like a kid…if that is not menacing, then, what the fuck is?" he crawls in an impossible speed, almost defying gravity. He enters a window and sees that there are a decent amount of people seating in chairs, in the pulpit there is a deep one in a cage. He sees a man on the center with a hood he hears the leader doing a speech: "my brothers, I have heard that someone is in the streets asking for me, maybe he is in league with that investigator! Maybe he is the reason why our brothers" he was interrupted when he saw Azathoth revealing himself in this mechanical form, it is sort of different now: there was no rust in this body; the red was more vibrant now and glossy, this cloth skirt now resembles a red trench coat tail. This "chest" has written on it on white letters: "Eldritch Exterminator" this rectangular shield has "A+M" written on it. "Well gentlemen, who of you is the mayor?" they pointed guns to him, "what and who are you?!" the leader asked. "What? Why do you answer my question, with a question?! Who the hell does that?" they shot, all of them. Azathoth unblinking gaze hammered their souls, "he…HE IS NOT FAZED BY THE FIRE!" one of them yelled. "Yeah, but you have fazed fire?" the outer monster said and then a cylindrical heat beam shot out of this single eye, it cuts every single goon like a hot knife to butter. The only one left is the one on the center. After that display of power and dread he politely asks the "mayor" "care to do me a favor?"
"Uh? Someone has left the building…and he is approaching me!" Clarke though as the mayor with this hood down walked to him "w-welcome to innsmouth…Mister Clarke…you wanted to ask me why I sent those hired guns to your university, please the townspeople wanted me to kill! It's not my fault, is theirs!"-"you are the mayor, the authority of this place, they must control your people, they must obey…or maybe there is a higher authority here?" the mayor was getting more nervous after John said this, "WHAT?! Sire, don't say things like that…there is no-" the young teacher interrupted him "oh yes? Why should I believe the same person that sent those goons to kill us, why should I believe the same person that worships Dagon, sire I think the big fish himself is calling the shots and not you?" suddenly all the mutated fish people looked directly at the bench the mayor and john were sitting on. "Oh…they heard us…Azathoth" the citizens retreated and then returned with all sorts of weapons: pitchforks, knifes, shotguns, revolvers etc. they slowly approached the two, aiming their guns, reading themselves for using their blunt instruments, after all a mayor in Innsmouth is not important, as long as Dagon and Hydra live. "So, me versus the lot of ya, well it's unfair, for you" azathoth suddenly jumped a window and landed on one of the closest citizen. "Sire this needs more than level one, I recommend you to use…two" –"proceed" this thin black pupil began to change to a shape identical to a two "thanks…this reminds me of the first time I talked to your father, and like that time…I am very, very grateful" he got out of this backpack this trusty CLAXXTON heavy machine gun. Then he touched this master's shoulder and he disappeared from view. They were about to overwhelm him but he simply shoot in a spin, the bullets completely destroyed this enemies. They tried to fire back but nothing fazed him, the outer god started to run through the mass of people with this harmonic knife, the sound of electric guitar feedback coming from the sharp instrument.
"Where I am?" he asked himself just to see around him and noticed "oh I am outside of that damn town, thank gods hahaha…Jesus this mission of mine was a fiasco" he noticed that something was purring in the back of this head, and then he felt like something was ripping this neck, he falls to the ground in pain, realizing that he has now difficulty to breathe. Meanwhile this servant was having fun slaughtering every single mutated deep one he saw, "why you keep head-buttin' your own species, why?" he though while using a head with a vertebral spine from a corpse as a bat around heavily injured deep ones, one of them appears behind him, climbs to this back and stabs this eye with a wood pencil, "hey imbecile, I am already blind" as he said this in a deadpan way he throws him to the ground and squashed this face with a stomp. As he fights this way he summons two moon beasts to cause mayhem around the city. He quickly regenerates this eye and begins to grab a small house, and then throws it to a crowd of three that had shotguns and pitchforks, the moons beasts were destroying every building they saw, but suddenly they saw a figure running out of their way, the second moon beast grabbed it and prepared to take a bit of this head, "WHAT THE FUCK ARE YOU DOING?!" they heard this dreadful master, hearing him like that means a painful death. He stopped this act of eating this unlucky victim. "Listen you tentacle face, this is a HUMAN, we don't kill those except when they oppose us! So put. Him. In. the. Ground. Slowly" he complied, "in fact rescue all the humans you can and put them in a save area. If I see blood of Homo sapiens in you (points to him this harmonic knife) I will grab your intestines and shove them up your eyes" he then used this heat vision to cut some of the confused mutants, the moon beast grabbed the human and ran to the outskirts of the city. Suddenly in the shore, two giants were approaching the devastated ground with enraged faces.
"OH YEAH!" Azathoth yelled when he saw those two figures "how dare you to kill our brothers and daughter?! You have the audacity to attack us unprovoked!" the male giant roared in an alien language that only gods can understand. "Kill him my loved! He is insulting our right to use these humans as we please!" the female one said, "Hydra, Dagon. Even I though you weren't this stupid, but hey easier for me" he jumped to a high that rivaled the two elder fishes, and then he kicked Dagon in the face; this wife on the other hand was fighting the two dream lands beasts. "come on, try to ask who I am, why I am doing this, come on, you know you want to oversized cat food!" the small cylinder said as he started to shot the eyes of this enemy from this hand (he was being grabbed by dagon) "YOU INSOLENT" he was interrupted when a knife came to this other eye. He noticed that the wife of Dagon was wiping the floor with one moon beast, literally. "Aw hell no! I am the only one that can do that!" he said as the knife came back to him and he without a problem cut the arm of this bigger enemy" when he landed he started to run at a speed that was unbelievable, he practically made this way through hydra's legs! She felt to the ground and the surviving beast grabbed the fallen monster and started to eat this face. He turned to see Dagon that was shocked and even horrified that this loved was being eaten alive "YOU BASTARD!" he yelled, he ran to azathoth that started to laugh insanely, and ran to this direction too. He grabbed this machinegun and shot at the belly of the beast, the deep one lord was getting weaker and weaker with the hole that the bullets were making. The trapped god jumped to the hole and started to carve with this knife, he made this way to the lungs, to the throat, and he was now in the jaws. "Hey D-boy have you heard of knifes? Then here is a complete database, I expect your brain to handle this information" azathoth said in glee and he started to destroy the brain in fast slashes.
"…Azathoth…I am…dying…help" he heard this master's mental command and got out of this enemy's skull, he quickly appeared in front…of a deep one in the same exact clothes as John Clarke.
