Spoonbill Village, Northernmost Quang Bin Province, SRV
June 29, 2011
As the two young adults stared at each other, nothing but shock registered in either of their brains. Not the stares of the villagers nor of Joseph's classmates affected them in their surprise. For Joseph, the shock was mixed with relief at finding his girlfriend safe, concern about his own impending fate as the main course and a strange confusion about what the heck was going on. For Marie, it was the sheer shock of actually seeing her boyfriend here and her puzzlement at the reason why that added to her numb bewilderment, not to mention the fear for his life at what might happen next.
As the shock broke, she knew that she had to act. And since the village chief was here...
"You cannot sacrifice this man! His family are allies are of my parents, his parents are involved in our business. If anything happens to him, calamity will come upon us all!" Demanding such things of the chieftain might have been rude, presumptuous and even insulting, but everything she said was the truth. If Joseph died, things would go down the toilet very quickly.
Before the men could answer back, the crashing of a great bronze gong echoed over the crowd and all heads turned towards the source of the cacophony, the temple. Coming down the steps was a red lacquered palanquin with red curtains. Four men in deeply-hooded red robes supported the wooden structure, it's bracing poles upon their shoulders. As they reached the courtyard proper, one of the warriors who had exited the large house went up to the palanquin, distinguished from the others by leather shoes on his feet, a broad circlet of gold around his black head-wrap and a single pheasant tail feather standing erect at the forefront of this headdress. Joseph could distinguish some sort of conversation happening, the words too quiet to make out. For several tense seconds he, Marie, his classmates and his professor waited for what would happen.
What happened was that from this man, the villages hereditary chief, the order was given for them to be spared... for now. Another order was given to separate them and hold them in isolation until a final decision could be made.
As Joseph was carried away into a side street, he could almost glimpse Marie following the palanquin into the Temple, including his Professor, still sitting in his basket.
Several Hours Later
Joseph could never fully recall all of the things that he had pondered in those hours, sitting with his hands and feet bound, alone in that dark storehouse, smelling of rice and preserved vegetables. He had found Marie and as he had suspected for a number of years, she apparently belonged to a semi-unique culture of Vietic speakers in her purported homeland of the Annamite Range. What came as a surprise was that they apparently, if the few bits of coherent speech he had heard were any indication, practiced some sort of ritualized homicide and may well be inclined toward the consumption of "long pork"... and at the moment, that could include him.
Eventually the door opened and soft, yellow light flooded the room, illuminating bags of rice and strings of hanging vegetables. In the doorway was Marie, carrying a paper covered lantern in one hand, a bronze bowl in the other and now hat-less. As he had briefly noticed earlier, the muscles on her limbs now had a definition to them that hadn't existed back in Glaston, her frame slightly more lean than the apprentice cook that he remembered. She was dressed just as she had been before, was still tattooed everywhere he could see and, as she she came over to where he was sitting, the light in the lantern seemed more like... fireflies than any kind of flame.
"So... nice place you have here." He hoped that starting slow could take some of the edge off the dangerous situation in which he now faced himself.
"Yeah... it is nice, I guess." Marie put the bowl (now seen to be carrying water) and the lantern on the ground beside him and knelt to untie his bonds. "I'm sorry that you got dragged into this. When I borrowed that record... I had no idea that..." She closed her eyes and sighed in a way that, to Joseph, made the tattoos on her face dance almost... alluringly. "There's a lot that I just couldn't tell you when we were younger. My people are used to hiding... maybe tooused to it by now. I want to tell you so much, but I... I don't know where to begin."
"Then start from the beginning. That always seems to be how it's done in the movies." Rubbing his wrists and ankles to get the circulation back, Joseph wondered just what he was going to hear.
What he heard was everythingabout her people, the stories she had enraptured Cora with plus a whole lot of other stuff, fantastic and gruesome in equal measure. The human sacrifice, the ritual cannibalism, the intermittent persecution by Chinese, Champa, Viet and French over the last two thousand years... nothing was left out. As he sipped water from the bowl, she described how her peoples ancestors had been Au Lac refugees from the Red River Valley, driven south into the mountains by the invading Qin Chinese. On the edge of total starvation, they had been saved when a spirit animal, a black water buffalo cow with a seemingly endless number of calves trailing behind, had emerged from the highland jungle at the chanting of animist shamans travelling with the group.
Behind those spectral buffalo had emerged their wonder and salvation: men in red robes with the legs of goats, monks from a far, high land called Leng. These strange people, who called themselves Shugoran, had taught this diverse group of farmers, mountain peoples, priests, urbanites and servants many useful magics: how to grow up to twelve crops of rice per year, how to draw water and metal from the earth, how to commune with the forces of the universe and not annoy them too severely, how to pass perfect memories from father to son, how to ensure the fertility of people, livestock and game and how to armor a person's skin so as to stop any blade or spear or arrow or sling stone.
It was this last spell, combined with the requirement in orthodox Shugoran magic for Human (or similar) sacrifice and cannibalism that brought on the next mess. When the Qin Dynasty collapsed under the weight of the first emperor's paranoia and his successors incompetence, suicide and the resultant power struggle, the men of the new "Leng Viet" decided to press their advantage. They launched a guerrilla campaign in an attempt to drive the Trieu Dynasty, with its mixed nobility of native southerners and Han Chinese, out of the Red River valley and establish a new native state.
Over the next hundred years, men raided trade routes and army barracks in the guise of screaming, bare-chested, tattooed (associated with bandits and convicts by the Chinese) savages, dragging captives off into the night or the forest in order to sacrifice them for either civilian or military magic. When they eventually lost their "War of the Bandits" (from the threefold causes of not getting any local nobility on their side, of terrifying the pants off their Viet kinsmen with their ferocity and the rumours of their religion and by the sheer weight of the eventual re-invasion by the armies of the Han Dynasty) they fled deep into the mountains of the West and South, being chided by the last of the original, goat-legged sorcerers for their foolish, ill-planned ambitions. From then, they had remained hidden and relatively peaceful, though remembered in whispered folk-tales as vicious, man-eating monsters.
After Marie had finished. Joseph sat in silence for a few minutes, digesting what he had just heard. The whole thing about magic was a bit.. hard to swallow. However, his own eyes had seen things that most would say were impossible. "You don't... you don't hate me now, do you?" Marie suddenly asked, her face awash in a worried panic, perhaps the culmination of every bout of anxiety she had ever experienced when Joseph had began edging onto the subject of her people's true nature. So much worry, so much fear and one wrong move now could break her heart.
For once, just once, he initiated the kiss this time.
"Does that answer your question?" As they pulled apart, he could see that most of her anxieties had melted away. "And... I hesitate to mention this, but about your parents restaurant..." He stopped when he saw her face, now an annoyed, knowing grimace that indicated that the next words out of his mouth should be chosen very carefully. "Uh... about the chicken, beef and pork they used. Was any of it... officiallysacrificed?"

Marie's grimace let up. "You need a priest to do anything official, and my parents are from farming families. Don't worry, we never served anyone up as the main course." She actually began to smile as she stood upright.
"Alright... but speaking of the main course, what about..." Joseph gulped nervously. "Me? Am I still going to be barbecue or did you actually convince anyone otherwise?"
The next news out of Marie's mouth was welcome indeed. "I didn't, but your professor won your life and those of the others after he talked with our Chief Priest. If I'm right, he and the rest of your team should be at the house of my paternal grandparents. Who arethey, anyway?"
"My classmates. The Anthropology department at Miskatonic organized this trip with Professor Andover and a couple of us volunteered. " Still holding the bowl, Joseph began standing, his limbs still stiff and numb from hours of sitting. Despite this discomfort and the twitching shocks that came when blood began flowing free again, he followed her out the door, though not before taking and slinging a bag of rice over his shoulder at her asking, along with a braid of garlic bulbs and a small box of dried pork on a cord.
During his captivity, Joseph had been held in one of the storehouses by the river, a short way north of the village. Now, in the waning light of dusk, he and Marie made their way back on the path that wove through vegetable gardens and pig-pens until they reached the outlying houses. Through narrow alleys between house stilts and below the sounds of evening meals being eaten, past dogs and pigs drowsing in the under-crofts and along the great outer wall of the temple they traveled before moving into the main square and down the main thoroughfare.

"It should be just after this next left, right across from the bronze-smith." As they walked along, they came to an intersection. On their right was a large house facing the street, belonging to the village bronze-smith and acting as a shop, a workplace and his family home. Across the main street from that house was a side street, lined by mostly smaller houses but each of them with soft lights in their windows. A few houses in, Marie led Joseph up the stairs of one house where familiar voices were laughing and making merry, including one brash female voice in particular that Joseph had come to know well.
As Marie lay down the lantern on the porch and opened the door, the voices became louder and clearer. When they entered, everyone was already seated (or at least kneeling). Albert and Malone were trading stories of their brief imprisonment and what they had seen, while Tracy was working her way through a bowl of green tea, apparently trying to cajole her way into the rice whiskey. Professor Andover was making small conversation with an old village man sitting at the head of the table who was wearing the brown jacket and skirt combo that was so common. Also at the table was a younger man and his wife, maybe a little older than Marie's parents, along with two teenage sons who had not yet received their tattooing. Some ways from the table, an elderly woman worked at a hearth lined with stone and brick, stoking a carefully controlled charcoal fire.
Everyone looked up at the new arrivals. The first to speak was the old man who had been talking to the professor, telling Marie to bring the rice and other ingredients over to the charcoal hearth so the evening meal could begin and then for them to sit down. After that was done, Joseph noticed that people were looking at him.
Apparently, it was time to make introductions.
"Joseph, I'd like you to meet my family on my father's side." After explaining that few of them could understand any English at all, Marie started introducing them. First came the old man, now identified as her paternal grandfather. Her grandmother, his wife, was the woman starting tending the fire at the hearth, her gray hair in an elaborate bun at the back of the head held together with a set of jade hairpins and wearing a long, black dress, similar to the garment that Marie had worn at the performance. Marie's uncle Huy and his wife An sat across from the Miskatonic students and beside them sat Cu'ong and Thao, their two sons...
Only two?
"Damn, the Kids!" Marie had been so busy with her boyfriend that the absence her younger cousins had escaped her until now. She got back up and went to the door, opened it and called down the street for them to get in the house now and try not to spill the water they were carrying. As she returned to where she had been kneeling, many hurried footsteps were heard coming up the outside stairs and the door opened again as five children entered as a crowd. The oldest, a girl who was perhaps eleven years old, was carrying two bronze pails of water in her hands while the second oldest, a boy of maybe ten, was carrying two more.
In fact, all the kids, which included two more boys and another girl, seemed to each be about a year apart down to a little boy of about seven years old. "Big families the norm around here?" Joseph asked his girlfriend as the water was transferred to cooking vessels and the ingredients collected.
Marie shrugged. "More or less: most farming families have at least three kids nowadays but the norm used to be around five around a century ago. This family is weird both ways: My uncle and aunt for having so many and my parents for just having me." 
Of course, sooner or later this casual reminiscing had to end. "So, Professor..." Tracy began, consciously deciding to get back on topic from the revery the two had been involved in. "You Said that you had something to tell us, about the ultimate purpose of this expedition?"
Neville Andover smiled the way that someone delivering a great and terrible revelation does. "As a matter of fact, I did." He motioned towards Malone, who was now extremely attentive. "This is Malone Roberts; for the last year he has been playing the part of my student, but he is far more than that. He is my assistant, my cohort... my protege in the context of the agency I work for. Tell me..." He seemed to direct this as every member of the audience (save Malone) who could speak English. "Have any of you heard of Delta Green?"
"What's that? Something in the Marine Corps?" It had soundedlike an innocent question from Ms. Williams, but Joseph had shared a class, study groups and cram sessions with her for many months, and could recognize the first signs of building stress and panic when he saw them. They were amazingly similar to the signs that Marie herself had shown, with the difference of gripping objects such as a table edge with white-knuckle intensity now apparent.
"It's surprising that you haven't heard of it, considering the contacts in your community and the agencies reputation for... extreme measuresbefore 1960." Now Andover turned to Albert Noyes. "Perhaps you have some notion of it... or its partner agency, Majestic 12. It is quite amazing work they're doing on the Yuggoth Project, especially on fungi." This seemed like it was crammed with potential clues, but honestly, Joseph couldn't make heads or tails of it.
Noyes, on the other hand, apparently could. He began smiling in surprise and recognition and began laughing at the revelation. "You mean... you know about the Mi'go?" Now Joseph was confused beyond all reckoning, and apparently so were Marie and Tracy.
"Know aboutthem, know some of them, occasionally work alongside them. And if I may say, for half-fungus, half-arthropod, telepathic pains in the rear, they are remarkably easy to work with." What followed was Albert explaining the situation: the weirdest kinds of aliens you could imagine had contacted some humans in the 1800s and hired them to assist in mining certain valuable minerals in the hills of Vermont and Maine. Over the years, the men and women in their employ had received advice from these aliens as to potential marriage partners, first in terms genetic compatibility and superior traits for their offspring, then based on attractiveness as their understanding of human reproductive psychology increased. Finally, as they realized the subtle psychological and social rules of courtship, the began acting as human elites once did, organizing parties for unattached men and women and subtly directing candidates certain ways as they piloted artificial human body-shells around the dance floor. 
It sounded weird... but reassuring, even humorous. Even Tracy seemed to lighten up... as far as a hunted rabbit couldlighten up.
"Mr. Clayton here is what you may call 'normal'. However, he was privy to manifestations not usual of this Earth." Joseph then told the assembled of what he had witnessed, with Professor Andover hypothesizing that the phonograph may have projected images and smells by some means of eldritch energies. Marie also retold the story of her people and of the deal that she had agreed to to gain access to the phonograph: one year back in the village and receiving her tattoos of adulthood. Nothing more and nothing less had been asked of her.
"And finally, we have Ms. Williams, whose tale has much to do with the founding of the organization and its present form." Here, Andover seemed to realize what kind of anxiety the girl was going through, and thus went slowly. "In the winter of 1928, the Miskatonic faculty was contacted by the United States Army to help investigate a series of strange attacks and abductions in Paige County, Virginia. As the base was in a primarily Quaker area, Miskatonic sent its lone member of faculty who was a Friend, one Hiriam Willows of Boston. While he remained among the Quaker farmfolk who knew the habits of the attacks, the army waged war against what was first believed to be a "degenerate" tribe of Iroquois but were later found to be white members of a strange fertility cult which engaged in human sacrifice."
The academic glanced towards Tracy, who had lowered her head, closed her eyes and grimaced at what was surely to come. He turned back to his eager listeners. "Before Willows left, he discovered strange objects in a secret room at the Longhouse Meeting Hall... objects which resembled those found on the slain cultists. He also, inadvertently, stumbled upon his hosts engaged in a ritual of apparent mourning, dressed as the Southern Iroquois would have been three hundred years ago, sacrificing pigs upon an altar at an isolated circle of standing stones, wailing and keening in grief." He looked back at Tracy. "This was the experience which convinced him that not all who worship the base forces of the universe are driven to evil nor insanity. It was also the experience that not all things should be released to the world, both for the worlds safety and that of the subjects."
After a moment's silence, Tracy spoke. "Excuse me." She got up walked out the door, somewhat to the surprise of her classmates, Marie and Marie's family. Marie then got up and went to follow, an act which inevitably drew Joseph after her.
They found Tracy sitting at the bottom of the steps, her chin on one balled fist, her other arm across her lap, her eyes staring into some unfathomable distance. Marie went forward first, sitting beside the girl as Joseph hung back. "I don't think we've been introduced. My name's Marie." When Tracy didn't answer. "You know, you don't have to feel bad about what other people did. Those guys the Army killed weren't your people, no matter how similar your rituals may have been."
"But they weremy people." The answer came suddenly and surprised both listeners.
"Pardon?" Asked Joseph from the middle of the stairway.
"Those dangerous cultists that the professor told you about; they were English, Quakers even... or had been at one time." She sighed, not quite sure of herself on how to explain to outsiders the issue which had plagued her fears since the age of 10. "They were my peoples kin, descendants of those of us who answered the Union armies call for guerrillas during the Civil War. Before that, we'd adopted some sacrificial ritual from the Iroquois during the 1720s after some very hard winters. Where before they'd killed dogs, black deer and captured warriors... as well as captured women and children if it got reallybad... to get good crops and health, we imposed strict limits and rules. There was to be no more human sacrifice, we killed our own livestock and above all, we accept the rituals as a gift from on high... even if the whole Christ thing was supposed to render sacrifice obsolete."
"I'd consider it a divine door prize. But about the Civil War?" Marie was trying to make the talk as nonthreatening as possible, considering the darkness which had settled over the village.
Getting back on topic, Tracy continued. "Well, we'd already been hiding escaped slaves for years on their way up to the major escape routes in Pennsylvania, but we felt that we couldn't do any more, especially with so much Confederate presence in the Shenandoah and the internecine aggression over secession. These people though... they wanted to do something. So, when a few Union officers wanted a meeting, they snuck off north. And when they came back, they brought otherthings with them. Old medieval codices which described Druidic rituals shockingly similar to our own but twisted and brutal, rituals which needed terror to be inflicted in the victims so that the full power of their life force could be drained. Their attitudes had changed as well; they became disdainful of the rest of the community: calling them weak, cowards, savages who refused to possess the full power of the Star Daughter and the Black Stag, fools who held onto their 'petty delusions' of morality. Well, after they went and made a mess of everything by capturing and sacrificing a Confederate squadron... the rest of the Longhouse Quakers shunned them, bidding them to go into the high mountains until they were ready to return. And so, a collection of about 50 men, women and children left the Valley and went into the high woods."
Joseph put something together in his head. "And I take it that the next time they returned was 60 years later, crazier than ever."
Tracy harrumphed. "You've got that right. And think about this while you're at it: by the 1920s, we'd been isolated for so long that it was starting to show in our features; the more inbred we became, the leaner our faces and the bonier our joints. By the time Willows got there, we just looked skinny and somewhat malnourished and with the right connections a few decades later, that began to get fixed." Her face got hard. "But what if Willows had finked on us, or Miskatonic sent one of their Congregationalist mama's boys instead? Do you realize what may have happened to us, especially in the 20s or 30s? Arresting us for a start, probably followed by forced sterilization and throwing us in crazy houses, sanitariums and prisons to rot. And that's just the adults!"
She was getting visibly angry. "Their kids, my great-grandparents, would have been shuffled off to orphanages or perhaps boarding schools if they thought we were just really pale Indians." She shuddered. "I've read about the shit that happened in Canada's residential school system and it gave me just as many nightmares as the thought of my ancestors being hunted like wolves and tortured for things they never did or for who they were." She turned to look at Marie and for the first time since he knew her, Joseph could put a name (that name being "very mildly inbred") on the features which he had labeled as 'rural-attractive' or 'cute in a farmer's daughter kind of way'. "I know that your people have been hiding, but at least you guys made the mistake of acting like total jerks to get your reputation! We never did anything wrong."
With that, Tracy got up, passed her companions and just as she was about to reenter the house, she paused and rethought something. "Well, never did anything wrong besides burning down that chicken barn, but that was an emergency! Neither my aunt nor my little cousin would be here if not for that and besides..." She turned her head to look at Joseph and Marie. "They wrote it off as an electrical fire." As Tracy went back into the house, Joseph thought that, while going against all conventional reason, his life made perfect sense for the first time in a very long while.
