     
 Oh, philosophers may sing, etc.

                                   Yes, it really is a very pleasant existence.  They're
  all so singularly kind and considerate.  You don't find them
  wanting to do this, or wanting to do that, or saying "It's my
  turn now."  No, they let us have all the fun to ourselves, and
  never seem to grudge it.

It makes one feel quite selfish.  It almost seems like
  taking advantage of their good nature.

How nice they were about the double rations.

Most considerate.  Ah! there's only one thing wanting to make us thoroughly comfortable.

And that is?

 The dear little wives we left behind us three months  ago.

Yes, it is dull without female society.  We can do
  without everything else, but we can't do without that.

And if we have that in perfection, we have everything.
  There is only one recipe for perfect happiness.

                       

                 Take a pair of sparkling eyes,
                      Hidden, ever and anon,
                           In a merciful eclipse--
                 Do not heed their mild surprise--
                      Having passed the Rubicon,
                           Take a pair of rosy lips;
                 Take a figure trimly planned--
                      Such as admiration whets--
                           (Be particular in this);
                 Take a tender little hand,
                      Fringed with dainty fingerettes,
                           Press it--in parenthesis;--
                 Ah! Take all these, you lucky man--
                 Take and keep them, if you can!

                 Take a pretty little cot--
                      Quite a miniature affair--
                           Hung about with trellised vine,
                 Furnish it upon the spot
                      With the treasures rich and rare
                           I've endeavoured to define.
                 Live to love and love to live--
                      You will ripen at your ease,
                           Growing on the sunny side--
      You're a dainty man to please
                           If you are not satisfied.
                 Ah! Take my counsel, happy man;
                 Act upon it, if you can!

            Here we are, at the risk of our lives,
            From ever so far, and we've brought your wives--
            And to that end we've crossed the main,
            And don't intend to return again!

