You mutt, you! I've stood enough from you. Don't you
dare. Love 'em! Oh, my Gawd! You damn
thick-head! Love 'em? I hated 'em, I tell you! Hated 'em,
hated 'em, hated 'em! And may Gawd strike me dead this minute and my
mother, too, if she was alive, if I ain't telling you the honest truth!

If I could only be believing you now!

Oh, what's the use? What's the use of me talking?
What's the use of anything? Oh, Mat, you mustn't think
that for a second! You mustn't! Think all the other bad about me you
want to, and I won't kick, 'cause you've a right to. But don't think
that! I couldn't bear it! It'd be yust too
much to know you was going away where I'd never see you again--thinking
that about me!

If I was believing--that you'd never had love for any
other man in the world but me--I could be forgetting the rest, maybe.

Mat!

If 'tis truth you're after telling, I'd have a right,
maybe, to believe you'd changed--and that I'd changed you myself 'til
the thing you'd been all your life wouldn't be you any more at all.

Oh, Mat! That's what I been
trying to tell you all along!

For I've a power of strength in me to lead men the way
I want, and women, too, maybe, and I'm thinking I'd change you to a new
woman entirely, so I'd never know, or you either, what kind of woman
you'd been in the past at all.

Yes, you could, Mat! I know you could!

And I'm thinking 'twasn't your fault, maybe, but having that old
ape for a father that left you to grow up alone, made you what you was.
And if I could be believing 'tis only me you--

You got to believe it. Mat! What can I do? I'll
do anything, anything you want to prove I'm not lying!

Would you be willing to swear
an oath, now--a terrible, fearful oath would send your soul to the
divils in hell if you was lying?

Sure, I'll swear, Mat--on anything!

Will you swear on this?

Yes. Sure I will. Give it to me.

'Tis a cross was given me by my mother, God
rest her soul. I was a
lad only, and she told me to keep it by me if I'd be waking or sleeping
and never lose it, and it'd bring me luck. She died soon after. But I'm
after keeping it with me from that day to this, and I'm telling you
there's great power in it, and 'tis great bad luck it's saved me from
and me roaming the seas, and I having it tied round my neck when my
last ship sunk, and it bringing me safe to land when the others went to
their death. And I'm warning you now, if you'd swear
an oath on this, 'tis my old woman herself will be looking down from
Hivin above, and praying Almighty God and the Saints to put a great
curse on you if she'd hear you swearing a lie!