Don't be standin' there like a hawk,
Harpooner. Speak up!

We want--the men, sir--they wants to send a
depitation aft to have a word with you.

Tell 'em to go to--Tell 'em to come. I'll see 'em.

Aye, aye, sir.

Here it comes, the trouble you spoke of,
Mr. Slocum, and we'll make short shift of it. It's better to crush such
things at the start than let them make headway.

Shall I wake up the First and Fourth, sir? We might
need their help.

No, let them sleep. I'm well able to handle this alone, Mr.
Slocum.

Well? Who's to speak fur ye?

I be.

So you be. Then speak your say
and be quick about it.

The time we signed up for is done to-day.

You're tellin' me nothin' I don't know.

You ain't p'intin' fur home yit, far s'we kin see.

No, and I ain't agoin' to till this ship is full of ile.

You can't go no further no'the with the ice before ye.

The ice is breaking up.
The grub we're gittin' now is rotten.

It's good enough fur ye. Better men than ye are have eaten
worse.

We ain't agoin' to work no more less
you puts back for home.

You ain't, ain't you?

No; and the law courts'll say we was right.

To hell with your law courts! We're at sea now and I'm the law
on this ship! And every mother's son
of you what don't obey orders goes in irons.

Then we're agoin' to mutiny and take the old
hooker home ourselves. Ain't we, boys?

Hold still! You's found out it ain't safe to mutiny on this ship, ain't
you? And now git for'ard where ye belong, and--[drag him with you. And remember, the first man of
ye I see shirkin' I'll shoot dead as sure as there's a sea under us, and
you can tell the rest the same. Git for'ard now! Quick! [Best get up on
deck, Mr. Slocum, and see to it they don't try none of their skulkin'
tricks. We'll have to keep an eye peeled from now on. I know 'em.

Yes, sir.

There, there, Annie. Don't be feared. It's all past and gone.

Oh, I can't bear it! I can't
bear it any longer!

Can't bear what, Annie?

All this horrible brutality, and these
brutes of men, and this terrible ship, and this prison cell of a room,
and the ice all around, and the silence.