But the grub's gittin' low.

They's enough to last a long time yit, if they're careful with
it; and they's plenty of water.

They say it's not fit to eat--what's left; and the two years they
signed on fur is up to-day. They might make trouble for you in the
courts when we git home.

Let them make what law trouble they kin! I don't give a damn
'bout the money. I've got to git the ile! You ain't turnin' no sea lawyer, be you, Mr. Slocum?

Not by a hell of a sight, sir.

What do the fools want to go home fur now? Their share o' the
four hundred barrel wouldn't keep them in chewin' terbacco.

They wants to git back to their old folks an' things, I
s'pose.

'N you want to turn back too.
Don't lie, Mr.
Slocum. It's writ down plain in your eyes. I
hope, Mr. Slocum, you ain't agoin' to jine the men agin me.

That ain't fair, sir, to say sich things.

I warn't much afeard o' that, Tom. You
been with me nigh on ten year and I've learned ye whalin'. No man kin
say I ain't a good master, if I be a hard one.

I warn't thinkin' of myself, sir--'bout turnin' home, I mean.
But Mrs. Keeney, sir--seems like she ain't jest
satisfied up here, ailin' like--what with the cold an' bad luck an' the
ice an' all.

That's my
business, Mr. Slocum. I'll thank you to steer a clear course o' that.
The ice'll break up soon to no'the'ard. I could see it
startin' to-day. And when it goes and we git some sun Annie'll pick up.
It ain't the damned money
what's keepin' me up in the Northern seas, Tom. But I can't go back to
Homeport with a measly four hundred barrel of ile. I'd die fust. I ain't
never come back home in all my days without a full ship. Ain't that
true?

Yes, sir; but this voyage you been ice-bound, an'--

And d'you s'pose any of 'em would believe
that--any o' them skippers I've beaten voyage after voyage? Can't you
hear 'em laughin' and sneerin'--Tibbots n' Harris n' Simms and the
rest--and all o' Homeport makin' fun o' me? "Dave Keeney, what boasts
he's the best whalin' skipper out o' Homeport, comin' back with a measly
four hundred barrel of ile!" [_The thought of this drives him into a
frenzy and he smashes his fist down on the marble top of the
sideboard._] I got to git the ile, I tell you! How could I figger on
this ice? It's never been so bad before in the thirty year I been
acomin' here. And now it's breakin' up. In a couple o' days it'll be all
gone. And they's whale here, plenty of 'em. I know they is and I ain't
never gone wrong yit. I got to git the ile! I got to git it in spite of
all hell, and by God, I ain't agoin' home till I do git it!