In 2050 an ill-conceived invasion of earth was launched by the Kalkars, a human-like, if excessively tall, race from a world called Va-Nah. They were led by a petty dictator called Orthis. It was spectacularly unspectacular, just another failed attempt to subjugate pre-cataclysmic humanity. However, it is notable for the reason that they had brought with them one thousand Va-gas, a lavender-hued slave race of quadrupeds with human-like faces and front limbs that doubled as arms. Not particularly intelligent at this stage of their development, the Va-gas were violent and cannibalistic, (Due in part to a lack of available food on Va-Nah) even preferring Va-gas flesh over that of other races. Fierce fighters with great strength, they also bred rapidly, making them very useful to their masters, since, as well as serving as soldiers, they also served as food for their brutal masters. The Kalkars, though arguably more intelligent than the Va-gas, were even worse. They (The Kalkars) grew fat, lazy and complacent, still, for over 200 years they managed to 'rule' earth, mainly through dumb luck and petty cruelty. Unlike H.G. Wells' luckless Martian invaders in War of the Worlds, the Kalkars could survive (And breed) quite well in earth's atmosphere.
Torren-Wraeth played no part in the earth-Va-Nah war, Goro had died in 2042 and the youth was lost in his own private agonies and recriminations. The Great Old Ones and Outer Gods mostly stood by on the sidelines, it did not concern them whether earth was ruled by humans or Kalkars, in the end, earth belonged to them. They felt the Va-gas had potential as servants, but the Kalkars were fairly useless to them. So the war was fought, mortal against mortal, bloody and cruel as all wars are. Orthis died early in the war, but it was a costly victory, for the human leader had perished with him. For every human victory, there was a terrible loss, Mankind was thrust into loose fifedoms and petty kingdoms in what the scholars call, The Second Dark Age, and the Kalkar's Empire reigned supreme. But, as with all empires, they faltered... The conquerers degenerated, forgetting the technology of their ancestors. Eventually humanity rose up and all but wiped them out with little more than swords and knives. Inter-species breeding and The Great Arising had, apparently, finished the job.
The Va-gas, being even less human-like and therefore more easily despised, were nearly wiped out as well, but they had won the favor of various powerful entities who rescued and found uses for them, particularly Shub-Niggurath. Torren-Wraeth had protected a small tribe of Va-gas as well, leaving them to protect his personal sanctuary, an abandoned shrine to Tsathoggua in Canada. It was here that he kept his most valued possessions and important artifacts. Many of Goro's belongings were housed within the temple, as were priceless treasures rescued from oblivion during the Great Arising. Paintings, statues, books... The history of humanity protected by descendants of alien invaders within a temple to an alien god. The Toad God himself allowed the use of his sanctuary for this purpose, as he was both Torren-Wraeth's great-uncle and too lazy and indifferent to truly care.
The Va-gas had become more intelligent over the centuries, and those associated with Torren-Wraeth were far less vicious than their ancestors. They even lived in a sort of uneasy peace with the nearby human tribes, by human terms, they had been 'civilized'. Once again, Torren-Wraeth wondered if it was right to impose human standards on non-human beings: Weren't they better off, not killing and eating each other? Weren't the local humans safer now? Hadn't he helped them? Isn't that what the colonialists he so hated always said? It was too late to wonder about that now...
Torren-Wraeth had visited Va-Nah once, and only once, it was worse than R'Lyeh, worse than Tond, even. Even in it's current state, earth was a far better place to live than that wretched hell-hole.
Torren-Wraeth glided over the burgeoning town of New Yokohama, set up by Japanese refugees he'd managed to ferry safely to Canada. It was named after Goro's hometown, though few knew of Torren-Wraeth's prior dealings with Japan, the Emperor and Shoguns had hushed everything up. Great Cthulhu, through Torren-Wraeth, had offered to make the Japanese Empire the greatest in the world, but they had refused. They could not accept one of the terms of the agreement, they could never bear the 'dishonor' of mixing their blood with Gyo-Jin. They had no idea that some of their people were already involved with the Gyo-Jin, as were people in coastal areas all over the world...and Torren-Wraeth had not enlightened them. People looked up and waved, Torren-Wraeth was well-liked in New Yokohama, as he had saved the original founders from certain death.
The Va-gas' settlement, Black-Stone-Place, was primitive, huts of wood and stone arraigned in a semi-circle around the black stone temple. Va-gas usually dwelled in Tepee-like structures, but these were 'settled', as guardians of the temple, they naturally remained in it's vicinity. They even had a rude form of agriculture, though this was mainly for animal feed, as Va-gas vastly preferred meat over vegetables. They raised some pigs and horses for convenient food, but they were mainly hunters, deer, wild hogs, wild horses, and moose were abundant. They, like most Va-gas on earth, worshiped The Black Goat of The Woods With A Thousand Young, and a shrine of antlers and bone lay at the apex of the crescent shaped village. It was here that the Goat's Dark Young came to collect their sacrifices and accept their worship, for the Dark Young were Shub-Niggurath's proxies, as Torren-Wraeth was Cthulhu's.
The Va-gas chieftain, Walks-With-The-Wind, met Torren-Wraeth as he landed. He stood upright on his hind limbs, and extended a three-digited paw in greeting. "Welcome back. May The Mother of All bless you." His black hair was beginning to gray, but his grip was strong. "And may she bless you, my friend." Torren-Wraeth replied, "How's hunting?" A small crowd of Va-gas of various sizes and ages gathered around the Half-Spawn, "The Mother has granted us abundance." "I'm glad to hear it. Any problems with the humans?" Walks-With-The-Wind paused thoughtfully, "No, humans rarely come, and none enter the temple." "The guardian must be lonely." Of course, the guardian was never lonely, even if it did not have twelve heads to keep itself company, it lacked such mortal attributes as loneliness and boredom, but it possessed the key that made it an invaluable guardian, loyalty. At the mention of the guardian, the Va-gas drew back as one, they feared it, that terrible 'spirit' with twelve heads on long, scraggly necks and twenty legs on it's globular body. It had not been his intention to frighten the superstitious Va-gas, but he had. "I'm going to visit the temple. Thank you for guarding it so well." Torren-Wraeth smiled, and made his way through the parting creatures. They wouldn't set foot in the temple, they believed it to be filled with captive human souls from the Great Arising, despite Torren-Wraeth's assertions to the contrary.
The temple was of black stone, squat and rectangular, with massive stone doors.
Torren-Wraeth entered the temple.
