Dry hacking. The sound assaults my ears, and makes my heart begin to flutter. It's unlike any paroxysm I've ever heard, even when Theodora contracted pneumonia two years ago. What's far worse is I know, instinctively, that it is not she whose body is wracked with illness. It's Lemuel Dawson, on his deathbed.
"Hold on!" My voice is lighter, younger, not yet burdened with the weight of sorrow after his passing. Like any good nurse, I rush to his side and wipe the bloody spittle from his lips with a handkerchief. This is no mere dream; it's a recollection, and that's exactly what I did back then. "I'm here as always, Father." 
"Millie," he says weakly, and smiles through the pain of nearly-constant coughing. "Come closer." I do, and wince at his fevered breath. "There's something that I must tell you, at long last." Every word of his is belabored. His voice reminds me of a desert wind, scorched with sand. Even his sickroom has that acrid air, as if we were in the middle of the Sahara instead of Massachusetts. I myself am hot, and know Father must be. However, I dare not leave his chamber to fetch a wet cloth for fear of missing his last words.
"They have come for me, and…you must know all that I do before they come for you. Find the keys," he says before being consumed with another coughing fit, "in the bottom drawer of my desk. Bring them here." Again I follow his directions, yet hesitantly. Throughout his life, Father had been very particular about who was allowed to touch his personal possessions, and rummage through his desks and cabinets. Even our taciturn Theodora, who'd never reveal any of his secrets even under duress, was forbidden from doing so. Father gave explicit instructions on which rooms were to be cleaned (kitchen, parlor, and so on), and which were not (his spartan bedroom after Mother died, and private study). That's why it puzzles me, in this nighttime vision as well as in life, to hear him make such a request. Nevertheless, I hurry to obey it.
It takes several tugs of the aforementioned bottom drawer, sticky with disuse, to get it to yield. When it does, I cough at the dust within and pull out a small iron ring with five keys. Each one of them is different, as keys naturally are, yet these five have been bent into the most curious shapes and configurations. I'm tempted to stand beside the desk and stare at them to my heart's content, fingering their bizarre metal shafts, but Father's waiting. Not knowing what he'll tell me, or what he wants me to do with the keys, I take them over to his bedside. Greedily, he grasps them in his long fingers and takes my right hand in his.
"First," he announces, slipping one of the unique keys into my palm. "Second," he then says, doing the same with another. "Third. Closet. Church." With sudden horror, I realize what they open: the three locks to the door of his forbidden study, the closet within it, and the only church to which he's ever belonged. "The one on Gallows Hill," he clarifies. I wonder why he's called it that instead of Cemetery Hill. Perhaps, now that he's facing his own hangman in the form of an illness that not even Leight's doctor can diagnose, images of the Purge are haunting him. "Read and learn all you can, when you're prepared. Take care." 
I couldn't stop myself: "Why 'take care'? Is something wrong? Who are 'they', Father? Please explain!" 
"It would take…too long." He slowly smiles, exposing all of his teeth in the white rictus of a death's-head. Pressing the keys so firmly into my palm that they leave mild scrapes and indentations afterward, Father coughs once more. "Believe." With that, his withered hand releases mine and falls to his side limply. He is no longer alive, and our conversation has drained me so much that I can do nothing but sob in fright.
I wake up to find my pillow damp, and my eyes glistening. There is no one around save for me, and the all-encompassing darkness to hide my tears. It's been seventeen years, almost to the day, since Lemuel Dawson departed this mortal world. I feel ashamed of myself, because after nearly two decades, I should not be so stricken with grief. Father, at this point in time, should be a distant memory, a framed portrait on the wall of my house and mind. However, he is not. He has evidently remained with me, in a locked compartment of my mental faculties that only dreams can reopen. Why now? Why here, in this very Inn? If the keys that he gave me so long ago - and which I've reconfined to the drawer from which I took them - are back in his old house, then why didn't I dream about them back there? This is too strange, and scary.
When you're prepared, Father had told me, read and learn all you can. Prepared for what, I wonder?
