     
Good morrow, pretty maids; for whom prepare ye These floral tributes extraordinary?

For Marco and Giuseppe Palmieri, The pink and flower of all the Gondolieri.

They're coming here, as we have heard but lately, To choose two brides from us who sit sedately.

Do all you maidens love them?

Passionately!

These gondoliers are to be envied greatly!

 But what of us, who one and all adore you?

Have pity on our passion, we implore you!

These gentlemen must make their choice before you;

In the meantime we tacitly ignore you.

When they have chosen two that leaves you plenty--
 Two dozen we, and ye are four-and-twenty.

Till then, enjoy your dolce far niente.

With pleasure, nobody contradicente!

 For the merriest fellows are we, tra la, That ply on the emerald sea, tra la; 

 			With loving and laughing,
                      And quipping and quaffing,
                 We're happy as happy can be, tra la--
                      With loving and laughing, etc.
                 With sorrow we've nothing to do, tra la,
                 And care is a thing to pooh-pooh, tra la;
                      And Jealousy yellow,
                      Unfortunate fellow,
                 We drown in the shimmering blue, tra la--
                      And Jealousy yellow, etc.

See, see, at last they come to make their choice-- Let us acclaim them with united voice.



 Hail, hail! gallant gondolieri, ben venuti!
       Accept our love, our homage, and our duty.
                      Ben' venuti! ben' venuti!

 			We're called gondolieri,
                      But that's a vagary,
                      It's quite honorary
                           The trade that we ply.
                      For gallantry noted
                      Since we were short-coated,
                      To beauty devoted,
                           Giuseppe\Are Marco and I;

                      When morning is breaking,
                      Our couches forsaking,
                      To greet their awaking
                           With carols we come.
                      At summer day's nooning,
                      When weary lagooning,
                      Our mandolins tuning,
                           We lazily thrum.

                      When vespers are ringing,
                      To hope ever clinging,
                      With songs of our singing
                           A vigil we keep,
                      When daylight is fading,
                      Enwrapt in night's shading,
                      With soft serenading
                           We sing them to sleep.

                      We're called gondolieri, etc.

