The Inn stands at the end of our largest thoroughfare, which is a few blocks long, but seems a thousand miles. With my heavy valise, I'm fortunate that I only have to walk half that far from the restaurant at which I've just dined. Once every month, I scrounge up enough money to have dinner at the Golden Goose. Despite my reputation in this village, I eventually come to long for the clamor of a crowd. The four walls of my father's house are my sanctuary and prison otherwise. Only Theodora, our cook and housekeeper that we've had since before I was born, keeps me company there. I would take her with me on my monthly outings to Leight's sole restaurant, but she stubbornly says she prefers her own meals all the same.
That's only part of the reason why she won't go, however. I've told her that even at the Golden Goose, the diners there glare at me out of the corners of their eyes and lower them to their plates if I look their way. Theodora is an even more self-contained soul than I am, and loathes being stared at "by all and sundry".
The evening sun is sinking low on the horizon, and the villagers around me are concealed in shadows. I don't want anyone coming up and asking me about my three-night errand - not that they would. When I prove the rumors about my forefathers' establishment wrong, I'll make them all look like fools anyway!
Those unfamiliar with Leight will notice three ever-present things as they travel down its main street: stalwart people, churches, and Cemetery Hill looming in the distance. Ever since I was a child, I sensed an eerie connection among these features of our humble village. Just what that is, I cannot say. They are ordinary enough on the surface, and yet I can't help feeling that there's something sinister about them.
My neighbors are proud, hard-working souls. Most of them live on farms on the outskirts of town. Even so, they trudge nearly every day to its center in order to seek supplies. The men of Leight are burly, with long arms and sunburnt faces, trusting in their toil and suspicious of learnt folk. It's just as well that they're illiterate. They wouldn't have much use for books even if they had the coin to buy them. Their wives, far from being what some people would call ladies, are just as industrious and sturdy as their husbands. I see them more often in town, as buying sundries is women's work, but that doesn't mean they're any more inclined to talk to me. They keep to themselves, as I do, but it seems their hearts are under lock and key.
I suspect that a large part of this has to do with the fact that they fear God as much as my family's past. Out of every ten buildings in Leight, at least four are churches. The Baptists, Catholics, Episcopalians, Evangelicals, Lutherans, Methodists, and even more denominations are continually at war. They each claim to believe in the Scriptures, and in the Father, Son and Holy Ghost. However, they also claim that all the others are false, to a greater or lesser degree. As for me? I attend no house of worship, and that is no great loss to me. My father, Lemuel Dawson, said that his own chapel - the one on Cemetery Hill - had been abruptly shuttered one Hallowe'en night. His fellow congregants then fled to other nearby towns.
"My dear Millie," he had told me, "the one true church on this Earth has been lost, and a year too early." That's another thing I've failed to understand, even though it haunts me as much as the Inn itself does.
Hurrying to get there, I pass the people and churches without much concern. Only the visage of the former Gallows Hill, now containing graves instead of a gibbet, catches my eye. Buried there are not only the fifty-three souls who were hanged during the Purge (or so we called our witchcraft panic), but criminals and paupers. I've often wondered why having no money is considered as great a crime as sorcery or theft, but in this village, if you're poor, then you are cursed. "God helps those who help themselves": so say we. I cannot help myself as I find my feet sprinting rather than walking toward the façade of the Dreamer's Inn.
The sky, now a cool blue-violet twilight, is growing dark. I'll soon leave light (and Leight?) behind. Even though I've been inside the Dreamers' Inn countless times, I've always been a bit scared of the place. Why is it that, even though it's supposed to be a haven for travelers, it seems like a mausoleum instead? I know that once I venture beyond its door, beneath the rickety sign that has announced its presence since the days of Abner Dawes, I'll be in a world unto itself. As such, I pause on the threshold and gaze up at its intimidating turret. Should I turn back and forget about spending a single night there, let alone three?
Then I remember my reasons, both monetary and otherwise, and step inside.
