   
     Methought I heard a whir of wings on high.


     I see naught save the snow and starry sky.


     We've come a long and mighty step today,
     From o'er the frosty hills and far away.

     Look, father, dost thou see that shining star
     That seems to stand above the town so far?
     'Tis like a wondrous blossom on a stem,
     And see, it ever shines o'er Bethlehem!


     A brighter star, I'm sure I never saw--
     And perfect form, without a speck or flaw.


     A stranger star! It never shone before,
     It standeth still above that stable door.

     Look ye, I've found a little lamb new-born.

     Poor little beastie! Wrap him well and warm.

     An ill night to be born in, frost and snow,
     Naught but cold skies above, cold earth below.
     I marvel any little creature should be born
     On such a night.


     I found it all forlorn,
     Crying beside its mother in the storm.

     Hark, I thought I heard a sound of mighty wings!
     Listen! Is it the winter sky that sings?

     Nay, gran'ther, I heard naught. You're old and gray
     And weary with the miles you've walked today.


     At noon I met a man who tarried in the shade,
     He led a mule, and riding it a maid--
     A maiden with a face I'll ne'er forget,
     A wondrous face, I seem to see it yet
     Lit with an inward shining, as if God
     Had set a lighted lamp within her soul.
     Many have passed all day, but none like these,
     And no face have I ever seen like hers.


     Belike the man and maid were strangers here,
     And come to Bethlehem at the king's command.


     Methinks I met that very man and maid--
     A maiden with such wondrous dove-like eyes,
     I saw them near this place, all tired and worn,
     Trudging about the town, seeking an inn.


     And did they find one?


     Nay, not so!

     For every inn was crowded to its doors.
     Hard by Deborah's inn there is a little barn,
  All full of cattle, oxen, cooing doves--
     I showed it to them, and they went therein.


     Mother, that star! That wondrous, wondrous light,




