 Evaluation English, My English  I remember my first lesson in English at intermediate level in school. 
We were told the most basic words and phrases, and my teacher wanted me to give her a pencil. 
So I did and said "Here you are" as we had been learned to. 
She said I had said it with a perfect accent. 
Walking home from school that day, fascionated repeting those phrases, I decided to learn this language well.  
Ever since intermediate level I've had pen pals from England/USA/Canada et cetera, and I still do. 
It's fascionating reaching people and making yourself understood, only by knowing/learning languages, especially English. 
This became very clear to me when I could write letters to a Greek girl in a language neither of us spoke every day, and still be understood. 
We still write to each other.  
I soon favoured the brittish accent, since I read and saw the screen version of the books by Jane Austen, Charlotte Bront et cetera. 
Therefore I hope to improve my accent and not speak American English too.  
In senior level we had a great teacher in this subject, who taught us a lot. 
I do think the teacher means a lot of your improving in this subject, as in any maybe, because in upper secondary school the teacher brought us nothing new and wasn't as enthusiastic for what she was teacing in and I didn't learn a lot from those lessons unfortunately.  y dream of going to England came true when the first year in upper secondary school was finished. 
My friend and I went to Kent and worked on a farm, picking and packing strawberries. 
It was awful work, but everything else was wonerful and more than I ever expected it to be. 
I remember the first conversations I had with English people.
I felt I had so much I wanted to say but it didn't come out of my mouth. 
It started with a few sentences, but soon it all went well, and in the end of three-week-period we naturally spoke English, even between us. 
But some words was of course in Swedish. 
I really loved beeing in England, talking to the other youth working there. 
There were English, Scottish, Irish accents. 
A few came from America, New Zealand, Australia and Canada. 
I was really improving my speaching there. 
We also went to London afterwords but there we questioned more than discussed.   
In the second year of upper secondary school we had a girl from New Zealand in our class who became a good friend. 
I learned more from her than from the English lessons.   
About my English today I would like to improve a lot of things. 
I love reading books in English, though I would like to check the difficult words now and than, because I want to improve my vocabulary. 
This takes a lot of time and interrupts the reading and when I don't find it very difficult understanding it without cheking the words I suppose that's the way I should go through books. 
Without using the dictionary all the time.  
The main reason I don't have a good vocabulary, I believe, is because I'm deaf in one ear. 
Therefor sometimes listening is a problem for me. 
People often learn words just by watching television, passive learning. 
I can't, because I need silence around the one who is speaking. 
The writening I really do like and maybe it would be an idea for me to change language in my diary to English! 
This course will hopefully ameliorate my writing, which is very important if you want to do a perhaps scientific essay or something. 
Acctually writing good will always favour you.  
I don't find it uncomfortable to speak with people in English, but I don't like to hold speaches. 
But holding speaches isn't what I like to do in Swedish either.   y expectations from this course are mostly to write good essays with a good English with good grammar, and to learn a great number of words. 
I'm sure I'll get a lot of other good things out of English A.
