1.
Introduction Today English is the mother tongue of about 400 million people, and all over the world people with other native languages study English as a second or foreign language. 
English has become a world language and through the years many different varieties have developed. 
Not only do we distinguish British English (BrE) from American English (AmE); we also have plenty of other varieties such as Australian, New Zealand, and South African English. 
All varieties of English have naturally developed different linguistic characteristics. 
However, BrE and AmE are still the two varieties which are used as a model for other varieties of English. 
The aim of this essay is to show differences in vocabulary between BrE and AmE. 
First of all, I will present some facts and ideas that have been discussed previously in this matter and then I will demonstrate the result of my investigation. 
There are many areas that could be discussed when it comes to vocabulary differences in BrE and AmE but this essay will mainly deal with cases where there are different words in BrE respectively AmE which carry the same meaning. 
I will concentrate on everyday words in areas connected to home and school.   
2.
Previous Research  	According to Ilson, (English Today No.4 1985:7), the result of a research done in the matter of differences between BrE and AmE is always rather deceptive. 
Ilson bases this statement on the fact that compared to all the similarities of BrE and AmE, there are not very many differences to discuss. 
Although people in Great Britain and the United states speak the same language, English, many linguistic differences do exist. 
As mentioned above, this essay will concentrate on vocabulary differences but the two varieties also differ in pronunciation, spelling, grammar, and style.  
Trudgill and Hannah (International English 1985:75-76), have also done research in this matter and in their opinion there are several cuses to this obvious differences in vocabulary. 
First of all, when the United States as a new nation made their own experiments and invented new items they naturally needed new words for their inventions and other discoveries. 
There were two different ways of doing this; the Americans either used a British word that already existed and gave it a new meaning, or they came up with a totally new word. 
Another cause to the vocabulary differences is that both Great Britain and the United States have went through several cultural changes and both countries have made great progress in technology which has lead to the fact that there in many cases are at least two different words for the same thing; one British and one American. 
Although English is a world language it is still influenced by numerous of other languages and some loan words may only occur in one of the varieties whereas other words exist in both BrE and AmE. 
However, there are also some linguistic causes to the differences in vocabulary. 
Words come and go, and they are labeled with new or additional meanings and this is often done differently in the two varieties. 
BrE and AmE influence each other, but there are also plenty of words that only occur in either BrE or AmE.  y Investigation In my investigation of vocabulary differences between BrE and AmE I have used a material which consists of 80 words from Longman Doctionary of Contemporary English. 
I will show both the British and the American forms of the words and give the additional meanings if there are any. 
Finally, I will present two diagrams which may help the reader to get a clearer picture of the words which my investigation is based on.  
In and Around the Bathroom 	 BrE					 AmE  bath					bathtub  have a bath*				take a bath*  dressing gown				bathrobe Towel*					towel down *diffrent verbs are used *the verb which means to dry yourself with a towel  Around the House BrE					AmE  block of flats				apartment building  terraced houses				row houses  semi-detached				duplex  fence					picket-fence  pavement					sidewalk  garden					yard  drive					driveway  dustbin					garbage can  postbox					mailbox  The Car BrE					AmE  petrol					gas  windscreen wiper				windshield wiper  indicator					blinker  numberplate				license plate  sidelight					parking light  petrol cap					gas cap  accelerator				gas pedal  handbrake					emergency brake  indicator					turn signal  boot					hood  bonnet					trunk  driving licence				driver's license  driving seat				driver's seat*  lorry					truck  freeway					highway *driver's seat: AmE, additional meaning: be in the driver's seat; to be the person who is in control of a situation.				  
In the Kitchen BrE 					AmE  ring					burner  cooker					stove  breadbin					breadbox  washing-up liquid				dishwashing liquid  tap					faucet  baking-tray				cookie sheet  scales					scale  fish slice					spatula  cake tin					muffin tin  bin					wastebasket  tea towel					dishcloth  worktop					counter  cultery					silverwear  brandy glass				snifter  grocery store				supermarket  soda					pop  biscuit					cookie  cookery book				cookbook  cool-box					cooler  Clothes and Shoes BrE					AmE  football booth				soccer shoe  baseball booth				basketball shoe  wellington boot				rubber boot  trousers					pants  polo neck					turtle neck  knickers					panties  suspender					garter  braces					suspenders  overall					smock  dungarees					overalls  jumper					sweater  tights					pantyhose  dinner jacket				tuxedo  hairslide					barette  purse					changepurse  handbag					purse  plimsoll					sneaker  court shoe					pump  anorak					wind breaker  In School BrE					AmE  public school				private school  free school				public school  pupil					student  lesson					class  rubber*					eraser  head teacher				principal  full stop					period*  exclamation mark				exclamation point  term					semester  timetable					schedule  holiday					vacation  cafeteria					lunch-room  maths					math  tippex					whiteout *rubber, AmE informal a condom *period, in both varieties this is the word for the monthly flow of blood from a woman's body
