So, now it''s the time for me to develope my English, and a good start from my point of view, is that I really love the English language both to speak and to write. 
I have noticed that when I listen to and just try to think in English, especially when I haven't done it for a long time, it almost at once feels familiar and (how shall I explain it?
;) funny, I just become happy to hear the language. 
English was one of my favourite subjects when I was in the senior level and that's probably one reason why I chose English as one of the main topic. 
And I really are looking forward to this time when I'm going to study English for about sixty points at the university. 
And as I earlier mentioned, I hope to learn a lot. 
In this essay, I will tell you a part of how I apprehend my strenghts and weaknesses in listening, reading, speaking and writing in the English language.  
To start with listening, I can describe my own opinion of my weakness when I for example listen to a tape, I can find it hard to follow when the speed is too fast. 
But otherwise when I'm listen to someone who just speeks directly to me or at least when it''s "live", I find it quite easy to understand. 
I remember when we in senior school and in high school did this hearings and were going to answer at questions afterwards and I found it difficult to remember every little thing, and I think that happened because I had some difficulties to follow, I felt like I needed more time to register what they said. 
But that's something I think is quite easy to learn by listen more in that form.  
Next skill is reading and to be better at it I think practise is what will be nedeed. 
Accordingly practise again. 
I haven''t read as much as I probably would have but now when I have started the first novel in this course, it feels good and I think I follow the content in it. 
By read a lot you learn lot's of new words because when something is unclear to you while reading, at least I have to check the words up, and it's therefore easier to learn. 
But it's the same problem in this skill as in the one before, I can find it difficult to understand while it's under pressure and there's a time limit. 
When you have to be ready in a decided time. 
Though I think this problem could be away by reading more and increase the vocabulary.  
About speaking, I have noticed that I use both the British English and the Ame-rican English in my talk. 
I prefer though the British English, it sounds much more real. 
To speak loud in front of new people, like now in the class when we don't know each other can be a little nervous but the solution might be found in more practise of speaking. 
Another "project" I have is to build up my vocabulary because I think I use the same words over and over again. 
It's kind of irritating when you really know what to say, but you can't find the word for it. 
But the positive part about me and my speaking is that I really think it's funny and I feel I develope all the time and that it goes pretty fast too.  
The fourth skill is writing, and maybe this was what I was most "afraid" of, comparing to speak and so on. 
But actually I find this funny too, and not as bad as I thought it would be, because when you haven't studied for a long time and not used the subject (for this occasion the English language) it seems to me anyway, be more difficult to write than just to speak. 
I can mention that I really love to write whatever it will be, in Swedish or in English, so therefore I'm very glad that this feels that ok that it really does, working with this assignment.  
This was a little about my strenghts and weaknesses in four skills within the English language, and to give you a short summery of it, it can be something like this. 
First I was telling you about listening in English, what problems I have doing it, and what I apprehend is positive. 
Secondly I brought up reading and what I thought was difficult and the opposite, a little easier, concerning it. 
Thirdly on the scedule were speaking, and the fourth and last, (eventhough not the "worst in degree in difficulty") according to me), was writing, in whom I likely the other skills, told you about my strenghts and weaknesses in this exciting, scaring, fascinating, sometimes lower your selfconfidense-feeling, but absolute in the end the greatest language in the world.
