 JULIUS CAESAR  This essay is in the form of a close reading analysis of a specific extract of Julius Caesar (act II.1, 112-119). 
In the previous passage Brutus has been having a conversation with himself in his orchard and he came to the conclusion that the only way of saving Rome is by killing Caesar, and therefore he decides to join the conspirators. 
When our extract begins, the conspirators: Cassius, Casca, Decius, Cinna, Metellus, and Trebonius are visiting with Brutus in his orchard.  
Since Brutus has decided to join the conspiracy he wants to shake everybody's hands as a proof of their agreement and he distinctly rejects Cassius's suggestion of an oath. 
Brutus clearly states that they are all honest men and their trust makes an oath unnecessary, especially since they feel that they are going to do something that every Roman will benefit from. 
At the time being the Roman people is suffering under the great Caesar's oppression and they have absolutely no time for themselves, even their beds are unused. 
"The sufferance of our souls, the time's abuse - if these be motives weak, break off betimes, and every man hence to his idle bed; so let high-tyranny range on till each man drop by lottery." 
(113-117). 
These are Brutus's reasons for killing Caesar and if he did not find the reasons strong enough he would not realize the deed but let the Romans get back to their beds and the unpopular ruling of Caesar would have continued. 
Brutus's way of rejecting the oath shows us that he is indeed a very honorable and trusting man who believes in a man's word. 
"What other bond than secret Romans that have spoke the word, and will not palter?" 
(124-126) Brutus is aware of the situation of the Roman people, his people, and for the good of every Roman he has to act. 
Cassius then comes up with another suggestion that they ought to ask Cicero to join the conspiracy but that is also rejected by Brutus: "O, name him not; let us not break with him, for he will never follow anything that other men begin." 
(150-152) Here Brutus reveals another side of himself. 
He does not want Cicero to join them because he might be a threat to Brutus's leadership, and Brutus is a good leader to whom the other conspirators listen. 
As the conversation goes on in Brutus's orchard the question of Mark Antony comes up. 
Cassius speaks again and he is of the opinion that because of Caesar and Mark Antony's close relationship, Mark Antony should die together with Caesar. 
Cassius expresses hi fear of Mark Antony: "If he improve them, may well stretch so far as to annoy us all; which to prevent, let Antony and Caesar fall together." (159-161), but he is once again rejected by Brutus who does not seem to take Cassius seriously although Cassius actually fears that Mark Antony will destroy them all. 
As we have seen Cassius has made plenty of suggestions which have all been rejected by Brutus. 
However, this indicates that Cassius has really done a lot of thinking in this matter. 
He is clever and he knows what to be careful with. 
After all the conspiracy against Caesar started with Cassius and now Brutus has taken over everything. 
It is Brutus who makes all the decisions and he is the one who determines if a suggestion is good or bad. 
In the question if whether or not Mark Antony should fall together with Caesar, Brutus holds the view that the aim of the assassination would be seen in a totally different perspective if they kill Mark Antony too. 
Besides, Brutus does not fear Mark Antony at all. 
He maintains that Mark Antony will be nothing, and will not accomplish anything without Caesar. 
"For Antony is but a limb of Caesar." 
(165). 
"Let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius." 
(166) With this line Brutus reminds Cassius and the other conspirators that the deed they are planning is for the good of the Roman people; they are not doing this for themselves, they are doing it for the people of Rome. 
Instead of letting thousands of Romans suffer they will sacrifice one man and make a better world for the people. 
This point is very important to Brutus since Caesar is his best friend and as a friend Brutus loves Caesar, but as a ruler he has to die. 
Although Brutus is planning to kill Caesar he cares for him: "Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully; let's carve him as a dish for the gods, not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds." 
(172-174). 
Brutus's mind is occupied by the thoughts of Caesar and therefore he is not at all worried about Mark Antony and he does not succeed in convincing Cassius that Mark Antony is harmless. 
As mentioned before, Cassius is very resourceful and he sees right through Mark Antony. 
"There is no fear in him; let him not die." 
(190) This is Trebonius, another member of the conspiracy, who is speaking and this line shows once again that Brutus is man to whom other people listen, because Brutus is an honorable man.  
This short part of the play is extremely important for the dissolution of the tragedy as a whole. 
Nobody knows what would have happened if Brutus had agreed on killing Mark Antony but the play would definitively have had another ending. 
It is Mark Antony's life that just as Cassius predicted destroys the conspirators. 
Due to Mark Antony's success in winning the Roman people over to his side he makes it impossible for the conspirators to proof that they killed Caesar for the general good and with no intentions of winning anything themselves. 
The conspirators never try to conceal what they have done and they take the full responsibility of the deed so indeed they are all honorable men. 
This is clearly shown in Brutus's speech to the public after Ceasar's death: " With this I depart, that, as I slew my best lover for the good of Rome, I have the same dagger for myself, when it shall please my country to need my death." (act III.2, 44-47, p.104)
