   

                      Fair moon, to thee I sing,
                        Bright regent of the heavens,
                      Say, why is everything
                        Either at sixes or at sevens?
                      I have lived hitherto
                        Free from breath of slander,
                      Beloved by all my crew--
                        A really popular commander.
                      But now my kindly crew rebel,
                        My daughter to a tar is partial,
                      Sir Joseph storms, and, sad to tell,
                        He threatens a court martial!
                         Fair moon, to thee I sing,
                           Bright regent of the heavens,
                         Say, why is everything
                           Either at sixes or at sevens?

 How sweetly he carols forth his melody to the
  unconscious moon! Of whom is he thinking? Of some high-born beauty? It may
  be! Who is poor Little Buttercup that she should expect his glance to fall
  on one so lowly! And yet if he knew--if he only knew!

Ah! Little Buttercup, still on board?
  That is not quite right, little one. It would have been more respectable
  to have gone on shore at dusk.

True, dear Captain--but the recollection of your sad
  paleface seemed to chain me to the ship. I would fain see you smile
  before I go.

Ah! Little Buttercup, I fear it will be long before I
  recover my accustomed cheerfulness, for misfortunes crowd upon
  me, and all my old friends seem to have turned against me!

Oh no--do not say "all", dear Captain. That were
  unjust to one, at least.

True, for you are staunch to me. If ever I gave my
  heart again, methinks it would be to such a one as this! (Aloud.)
  I am
  touched to the heart by your innocent regard for me, and were we
  differently situated, I think I could have returned it. But as it
  is, I
  fear I can never be more to you than a friend.

 I understand! You hold aloof from me because you are
  rich and lofty--and I poor and lowly. But take care! The poor bumboat
  woman has gipsy blood in her veins, and she can read destinies.

Destinies?

 There is a change in store for you!

 A change?

Aye--be prepared!
