Heaven's not enough
If when I'm there I don't remember you...
The words came unbidden to Torren-Wraeth's mind. The line was from an old song from the soundtrack of an old Japanese anime that had confused and depressed the hell out of him. He shook his head, Heaven's Not Enough, Steve Conte, Wolf's Rain soundtrack, No... there had been two soundtracks for that series, this was the first song on the second. Why wasn't it called Wolves' Rain? He thought, trying to dispel the sad song, but it played on, and he was even singing softly toward the song's end...
'Cause I couldn't cry
'Cause I turned away
Couldn't see the score
Didn't know the pain
Of leaving yesterday really far behind
in another life
in another dream
By a different name
gave it all away for a memory 
and a quiet lie
and I felt the face 
Of the cold tonight
Still don't know the score
But I know the pain
Of leaving everything really far behind ...
Thus distracted, he did not see Dahlman.
The sorcerer was a servant of the He Who Gnaws in The Darkness. Azathoth was neither ally nor enemy to Cthulhu, he was actually his 'Great-Grandfather' having sired both Yog-Sothoth and Shub-Niggurath, who had sired Nug and Yeb, Nug being Cthulhu's parent by parthogenesis. Azathoth's 'worshipers', however, tended to be madmen in the truest sense. He was a mindless entity, neither desiring nor rewarding worship. Some of the gods who danced round and round his throne often took it upon themselves to accept his worship and grant gifts in his behalf. Especially Nyarlathotep...
The Outer Gods were the key. Humans were a weak species, helpless in the face of even the least of The Great Old Ones. But by learning, by studying the Outer Gods, by utilizing their power, a human could assume a form of divinity themselves. For decades Dahlman had faithfully studied the ancient texts, The Book of Eibon, The Necronomicon, The Book of Iod, and he had learned to harness the power of those who lurked mindless and blind beyond the thin veil of reality. And now he would prove his worth, he would bring down an immortal, the child of a god...
A bolt of lightning shook Torren-Wraeth from his revery, it barely hurt, but he could tell it was not natural. He turned to see a black-clad figuring closing in upon him, and erected a Deflect Harm even as the human struck out with Fist of Yog-Sothoth. "Okay, now you're annoying me." Torren-Wraeth lashed out with Implant Fear, hoping to avoid having to actually kill this irrational attacker. He disliked sorcerers, but he also disliked having to harm people. But the madman had cast Deflect Harm upon himself, and, thus protected, struck back with The Dread Curse of Azathoth. Torren-Wraeth reeled, Now that hurt! Enraged, Torren-Wraeth physically rushed the sorcerer, ignoring the protective amulet the man held out, and punched him square in the nose, breaking it. Distracted by the pain, Dahlman fell before Implant Fear.
Dahlman's mind was instantly overwhelmed with unimaginable fear and he turned to flee, all spells forgotten in his terror, only to run into a golden monstrosity streaking toward him in the dawning sky. He called frantically upon his gods to save him. But these were not benevolent gods, they were fickle, and enjoyed granting lesser beings great power, just to have the pleasure of snatching it away. His gods deserted him mid-flight, his skin shriveled and shrank tight against his bones as he aged in seconds. The capricious Outer Gods no doubt laughed as their former ward fell into the sea, and was immediately set upon by sharks.
Torren-Wraeth and Tek watched impassively as the dying sorcerer fell into the sea.
"Who was that?"
"I have no idea."
"And I thought you were in trouble."
"Sorry."
"You do get in the strangest situations." Tek observed wryly.
"Sorry."
You've made me late, you know."
"Sorry about that."
"It's okay, I could use the break. A word of advice, never marry a woman with five mouths."
Both Tek and Torren-Wraeth laughed.
Ho Fong arched an eyebrow as he saw the disheveled Torren-Wraeth accompanying Lord Tektaktequataquarl. He'd seen him before, of course, he occasionally visited alongside Tek, though his distaste for the ritual sacrifices of human beings was clearly evident. Fortunately, no such events were scheduled. "Are you alright, Lord Torren-Wraeth?" He knew better than to call him simply 'Torren' or 'Wraeth'. "I'll be all right, Master Ho," Torren-Wraeth said with perfect Chinese courtesy, "But I would be most grateful for a place to rest for a while." Ho Fong smiled, "Of course," he turned, "Ping, take lord Torren-Wraeth to one of the guest areas and provide him with whatever refreshments he requires." A youngish monk, dressed in the standard yellow and black silk, stepped forward and led Torren-Wraeth deeper into the monastery.
It was instantly obvious to Torren-Wraeth that Ping was not Chinese, at least, not in the ethnic sense. He was one of the dreaded Tcho-Tcho people, descendants of toad-like creatures created by the Great Old One Chaugnar Faugn and human cultists. The Tcho-Tcho had an evil reputation, one well earned. The vast majority of them served the Great Old Ones, and many practiced cannibalism. There were exceptions, of course, not all Tcho-Tcho were evil or insane, but those individuals were usually outcasts, hated and sometimes even hunted by their own people. As they walked, Torren-Wraeth halted for a moment before an idol of carved black stone. It was well-crafted and incredibly detailed, lean muscled and lanky, wings extended, the webbed hands held palm up like a divine supplicant, the curving trunk-mouth lifted upward as if it were sounding a call. A call to Death itself, for this was Shugoran, The Herald of Death, worshiped and feared by the Tcho-Tcho people. Ping knelt reverently then hurried Torren-Wraeth into a nearby chamber.
The scent of Black Lotus was thick in the air as the monks shut the great copper door behind Tek. "You really shouldn't smoke you know," he said casually, "Terrible for the lungs..." The Bloated Woman rose from her cushions, "Only if you are a mortal, which I am not." Tek smiled, then shed his semblance of humanity, becoming a writhing, shapeless mass of golden flesh, golden tentacles, golden eyes and pearly white fangs. "What of our child?" Several mouths spoke at once. The Goddess came closer with a grace unfitting such an obese creature. "Nothing can harm our offspring." "How long, do you think?" The Bloated Woman stopped, apparently this visit was for business, not pleasure. "It is impossible to tell. I have born some children within days of conception, and others within centuries." She sensed a slight jealous possessiveness on the part of the Hastur-Spawn, he wanted her as his sole mate, an amusing and archaic notion, not often seen in a True-Blood. The fact that he knew she had devoured most of the former lovers did not apparently assuage this unseemly feeling. "I feel that this one will be born within a month or two..." She grinned horribly with all five mouths, "How has your father reacted?" "Our child will be welcome in Carcosa." Hastur, in truth, was somewhat worried, fearing that the child would be another avatar of Nyarlathotep, that the Crawling Chaos would use the child as yet another form in which to manifest itself. In other words, he feared that Nyarlathotep would give birth to itself...
For all the vile practices that went on in the Monastery of The Bloated Woman, it was a beautiful place, richly decorated in jade and silver, gold and silk. Yellow and black, every strand of silk in the monastery was either yellow or black. The yellow made for a much friendlier environment than the dark, ominous stones of R'Lyeh. The Goddess favored those colors, for some reason. Torren-Wraeth remembered something Goro had once said. Among his people and several other Asian cultures, yellow was the color of mourning. Black meant death and mourning in the West, yellow filled that role in the East. Was it intentional? Probably, but he was a guest, and it would be rude to question his hosts. He changed from his slightly charred clothing into the yellow and black robes that had been kindly provided him and stepped out into the hallway. There he saw Ping once again kneeling before Shugoran.
