Some people who sleep at the Dreamers' Inn, in my hometown of Leight, Massachusetts, never wake up.
So it is said. 'Tis a wonder that our only boarding place for travelers manages to stay open at all, with the ceaseless grinding of the rumor mill reaching wayfarers' ears before they reach here. Our village's moniker is pronounced as if the "e" were not there, nor any source of illumination. Despite our best efforts to redeem the name of Leight, it is still spoken like a curse. We are God-fearing folk now, in anno Domini 1893, but some of us weren't two hundred years ago. The witchcraft panic that had hit Salem in 1692 infected us like a fever one year later. Fifty people were sickened, and cured by a visit to Gallows Hill.
My great-great-grandfather and original proprietor of the Inn, Goodman Abner Dawes, was one of them.
My name is Millicent Dawson. Even though I'm four generations descended from him, respectable people in Leight cross to the other side of the street when they see me. If it weren't for my late father's pension, I'd be searching these same streets for men too drunk to care about my ancestry. I'm a spinster at thirty-four, but still pretty according to the Inn's current owner. Not that I'd have Monsieur Thènard! He is no drunkard, but sometimes I wish he were. His eyes, never bloodshot and always keen, are those of a wolf.
Is it he that continues to lend the rumors such credence? Has he dared to murder his own customers?
Pah! It's far more likely that the villagers, many of whom are superstitious illiterates, want to keep anyone from having anything to do with the Dreamers' Inn because they're terrified. I, for one, am not. I know my great-great-grandfather's establishment for what it is: a broken-down lodging house, greatly refurbished, with three floors and servants' quarters at the top. It's the closest thing that Leight has to a castle, because the guest rooms and garret are contained within a tall turret. The Inn is the very sort that inspires ghosts and unspeakable phantoms to possess one's imagination - even mine. I suppose I cannot blame my naïve neighbors too much. If I'm out in the evening, having a bite of dinner at our only restaurant, I try not to gaze up at that tower. As it darkens in the fading twilight, it slowly turns blacker than any sort of pitch.
What is it about the place that makes me shudder, even though I'm not so silly as to believe it's haunted?
How has it remained a dreamers' refuge for more than two centuries, my ancestors' toil notwithstanding?
Why do I always see it in my own dreams, as it draws me like iron toward a magnet?
Such mysteries are better left unsolved. What I must do is remain calm, and grounded in practicalities.
The rumors state that no visitor to the Dreamers' Inn has ever been a guest for more than one night. Even those travelers who have spent that brief length of time within its walls have departed without a word, in a mad frenzy of escape. I've lived in Leight all my life, and have no reason to pay for a room when I'm safe enough in my late father's house. Nevertheless, I intend to stay not for one night, but three. I shall prove the chatter of my fellow citizens to be foolish gossip, once and for all, and bring more business to the Inn. I receive a share of its profits, being the only living descendant of its owners throughout the generations.
Father's pension is barely holding out, and with a bitter chill in the air, I need some more money for winter.
