 EVALUATION English, My English  I have been studying English since fifth grade. 
I listen to English music every day, and almost every movie I watch is from Australia, the United States or the United Kingdom. 
So why can't I learn how to speak English properly?  
y accent is definitely my most significant weakness. 
I have more weaknesses when it comes to the English language, but I'm better at hiding the others. 
But sometimes I have to speak, and every time I sound terrible. 
I sound so Swedish. 
I haven't always been aware of my bad accent. 
None of my classmates in compulsory school could really speak English, and neither could I. 
But I was more interested in learning English then they were, so I felt pretty smart. 
But that changed. 
What was it then that made me realize I sounded like a lousy acter? 
I know exactly when I realized it and who the person was that told me. 
It was in upper secondary school. 
A boy in my class had written a poem in my calender. 
The first sentence was: " Holy Mother Earth". 
I liked the poem very much, so I read it to a friend in another class. 
Then a boy in her class started teasing me for the way I pronunced the first sentence. 
That was the first time I even thought about how I sounded. 
But since that day I have been trying to improve my pronunciation. 
I can't say I've succeeded. 
But I still try.  
It's much easier when it comes to reading. 
If I don't understand the meaning of a word, I always look it up. 
I think it's fun to learn new words, it doesn't matter in what language. 
I reacon I'll have use for them some day. 
I've never had any problems with reading. 
I read very fast, but I have to be concentrated. 
Otherwise I don't remember what I've read. 
But nothing bothers me if I read something interesting. 
(English or Swedish.) 
My mother had to deal with that many times. 
I just don't care about anything but what I'm reading. 
I don't even notice if the text is English or Swedish if the content is interesting. 
I guess that's proves that I'm used to the English language. 
If a text is difficult, I can't concentrate, I want to know the meaning of every single word. 
I can't just go on. 
What if the word is really important? 
I must learn the meaning of it! 
My vocabulary has increased a lot thanks to this. 
I've realized the best way to try to understand a word is to pronunce it to myself. 
Then I often recognize it. 
But it takes a lot more time for me to read an English text compared to a Swedish one, because I use the dictionary very often.  
What about spoken English then? 
Do I have any problems with that? 
I have never really thought about how I listen to English. 
I'm so used to it. 
I hear English most of the time. 
If it's not the music on the radio, it's the TV. 
If I just listen, it's the same as with reading something interesting. 
I don't recognize which language I'm listening to. 
After some of the lectures here at the University, I have to think" Did he/she really speak English.?" 
English is a part of the every-day life. 
For me, listening to English is no longer more difficult then listening to Swedish. 
But I have to admit I've had some trouble in the Grammar lectures. 
So many new words, and when I look them up, the Swedish translations are just as unknown to me as the English words. 
Except from that I need to concentrate more to understand all turns and jokes in English. 
It's easy to lose the thread if somebody changes the subject often. 
That is a problem I've never experienced when I listen to Swedish.  y difficulties with the English language can be solved nearly every time if I concentrate. 
I know the basics, and I learn something new every day. 
I wrote that reading has never been a problem for me. 
Neither has writing. 
I've written short stories in Swedish since I was a child, and I like to write. 
I have a great imagination, well trained when I was a child.(
= I made up rather unbelievable things.) 
I remember that I thought writing in English was difficult when I started upper secondary school. 
Probably because I didn't have the vocabulary I needed. 
But I had a great teacher that thought me very much, and she made us write a lot of summaries and essays. 
The best way to learn something is to practise, so I can't say I think writing is difficult anymore. 
There was one thing my teacher complained about. 
(Of cource I did more errors, but this always came up.) 
I often avoid difficult words. 
If I'm not certain of the spelling, and haven't got a dictionary, I prefer to exchange the word rather then to try spelling it. 
Maybe because I've never have had any problem what so ever with spelling Swedish. 
If I spell a word wrong, I feel stupid. 
It feels like I've been trying to show off with words I don't really know. 
There are some words I always spell the wrong way. 
I always throw in an "e" too much in "being", I just can't remember not to do it. 
I have problems with writing short things. 
And I don't keep to the subject. 
But I guess I can't blame English for that...  
My weaknesses are not unusual, just the problems that occur when one deals with a foreign language. 
But I admit I could kill for a better English accent...
