
 Oh, 'tis you, is
it? What're ye shiverin' 'bout? Stay by the stove where ye belong and
ye'll find no need of chatterin'.

It's c-c-cold. Who d'ye think it were--the Old Man?
None o' your
lip, young un, or I'll learn ye. Where was it ye've
been all o' the time--the fo'c's'tle?

Yes.

Let the Old Man see ye up for'ard monkeyshinin' with the
hands and ye'll get a hidin' ye'll not forget in a hurry.

Aw, he don't see nothin'. He jest walks up and down like he didn't notice nobody--and
stares at the ice to the no'the'ard.

He's
always starin' at the ice.  Ice, ice, ice! Damn him and damn the ice! Holdin' us in for
nigh on a year--nothin' to see but ice--stuck in it like a fly in
molasses!

Ssshh! He'll hear ye.

Aye, damn, and damn the Arctic seas, and damn
this rotten whalin' ship of his, and damn me for a fool to ever ship on
it! He's a hard
man--as hard a man as ever sailed the seas.

Aye.

The two years we all signed up for are done this day! Two
years o' this dog's life, and no luck in the fishin', and the hands half
starved with the food runnin' low, rotten as it is; and not a sign of
him turnin' back for home! Home! I begin to doubt if ever
I'll set foot on land again. What is it he thinks he's
goin' to do? Keep us all up here after our time is worked out till the
last man of us is starved to death or frozen? We've grub enough hardly
to last out the voyage back if we started now. What are the men goin' to
do 'bout it? Did ye hear any talk in the fo'c's'tle?

They said if he don't put
back south for home to-day they're goin' to mutiny.

Mutiny? Aye, 'tis the only thing
they can do; and serve him right after the manner he's treated them--'s
if they weren't no better nor dogs.

BEN. The ice is all broke up to s'uth'ard. They's clear water s'far 's
you can see. He ain't got no excuse for not turnin' back for home, the
men says.

He won't look nowheres but no'the'ard where
they's only the ice to see. He don't want to see no clear water. All he
thinks on is gettin' the ile--'s if it was our fault he ain't had good
luck with the whales. I think the man's mighty
nigh losin' his senses.

D'you really think he's crazy?

