In this essay I am going to describe my knowledge in speaking, writing, reading and listening in English. 
I'm going to concentrate on my strengths and weaknesses in speaking and writing, with some comments on my reading and listening competence, between school and now. 
I've always liked English and since I started studying English in the 4th grade I've always found it a fascinating and challenging language. 
Even before that I terrorised my mother and father with lots of questions about different English words and phrases, and when we started studying English I tried to learn everything at once. 
I've had good teachers in English who have taught me very much, and they've helped me a lot. 
After upper secondary school, I went to France for one year and then to England one year; I wanted to practise my language skills. 
In England I lived and worked in London, at first I worked at hotel and then in a clothes shop. 
It was a very educating period, I learnt a lot of English and I got a chance to improve my oral English, which had never been good. 
When I went to school I mostly sat quiet and didn't do much to improve my skills in speaking. 
I found it easier to express myself by writing, because then I had time to think what I wanted to say, instead of letting the words slip out of my mouth and embarrass myself by saying the wrong words. 
And we actually never got any real chances to speak English in my school, it was always the teacher who spoke and held lectures. 
So we didn't really have any discussions, where we both talked and listened.  
After a while in London the words came naturally and I felt I could express myself quite easily, without twisting my brain too much. 
It was a tremendous joy when people gave me compliments for my English and some even asked if I was British or Irish!  
When it comes to my writing, I'm not happy about the development. 
As I said I've always found it easier to write than to speak. 
I used to feel more comfortable when I had it printed, and it gave me time to think of the spelling, the structure of the sentences, etc. 
I never had much trouble with the spelling, it has been clear to me how to spell easy and difficult words. 
But now it's not that obvious anymore. 
Well, I know how to spell, but sometimes I get uncertain of even the smallest and simplest word. 
I guess it's because I haven't written much in English since I went in school, and now I have to pay for it. 
To say something about my reading and listening, I don't think it has changed drastically from when I went to upper secondary school till now. 
I would read more, if I had more time.  
I like reading newspaper and novels, and I don't see it as an obstacle if it's in English, I rather see it as an opportunity for me to practise.  
I didn't like it when we had to listen to cassettes as a listening comprehension in school. 
I suppose that it was because I found it easier when I had the text or the questions on paper in front of me so that I could read them again if I had to and think a while before answering. 
I think I would like it more now, maybe because I've become more confident in myself concerning English. 
To conclude this essay, I will sum up the biggest changes I've noticed about my English; I feel more confident in speaking now, I speak fluently and find it easy to communicate. 
My writing (and spelling) is unfortunately not as good as it has been but that's something I will work with. 
When it comes to reading and writing I don't think that it has changed so much. 
On the whole I feel confident in my English and I hope I will develop my knowledge even more during this course and be able to go deeper into the study of the English language.
