August, 1346- The Mongol warriors watched as a burning object fell, seemingly from Heaven itself, near the encampment besieging Caffa. It was a good omen, a symbol of victory against the trading town that resisted them. The gods had shown their light upon the invaders...
Baoht Z'uqqa-Mogg pulled himself painfully from the burning pit of molten glass, his many clawed limbs scrambling for purchase, his massive front claws pulling his heavy body from the pit. He had floated through space for so long, too long... Shaggai was gone, his home was gone. The accursed harbinger, Ghroth, had shone it's killing red light upon the surface of that world, slaying the Shan and awakening The Worm That Gnaws in The Night. Baoht Z'uqqa-Mogg had fought valiantly to preserve his world, but failed, and had been flung into space as the world imploded beneath the power of The Worm. He stood upon his many, spider-like legs, relishing the feeling of solid ground beneath his claws, and straightened his three pairs of barbed, ragged wings. Thousand of eyes peered out from between feelers in a walnut-shaped head, his venom dripping from his mandibles, sizzling the warm ground beneath. A new world, a new home.
Home.
The few who saw the terrible dragon fly over head knew that this was no divine harbinger of victory. The even fewer who lived long enough to tell of it before being felled by the plague that followed rambled about a giant, winged scorpion. Within days everyone in the camp had contracted the plague, and soon, so had everyone in the besieged town.
Swarms of small insects, attracted by some scent, some pheromone, followed in Baoht Z'uqq-Mogg's wake. He barely noticed them, he was intoxicated by his new world, so warm, so pleasant. There were abundant swamps here, he could feel it. Places to rest, to heal his battle-wounds...
The Italian merchants of Caffa fled in their ships, bringing with them the fleas and rats that carried the Black Death, guiding it to new ports. The plague spread like wildfire, carried by vermin and fear. Kings and Churches tried to still the tide of death, and failed. People blamed Jews, Romany, paupers, lepers and foreigners, claiming they had poisoned their waters or placed curses upon them, and many were claimed by mob-violence and the disease of hate before they could be claimed by The Black Death. By 1350, over a million people had died, half of Europe was dead, society was in tatters and fear ruled over all.
Baoht Z'uqqa-Mogg was mildly curious about these strange beings, he probed them with his mind, learning about them... These primitive creatures, these humans, seemed to be dying out. Some plague was ravaging them. But that was not his concern. Other beings, similar to the humans, yet different, came forth to feed on the dead and offer up praise to him. These beings, these... Ghouls, called him The Provider. They believed that he caused the deaths that fed them so well. He welcomed their praise, but he was tired, and sought a place to rest...
Finally, a land of steaming jungles lay before him, thick swampland beckoned with it's warmth and comfort. The Great Old One settled into deep, warm mud, and slept, dreaming. A plague raged across Africa, but he knew it not...
