Introduction In the following essay I'm going to tell you a little about my English skills. 
I'm going to point out my strengths and weaknesses in the four skills of listening, reading, speaking and writing.   
Listening: I have studied English in school since I was about ten years old. 
My listening to English probably started long before that though. 
I think so because I remember how my older brother always watched TV that I couldn't understand. 
I also have two cousins from England who came for a visit many years ago. 
I never dared say a word to them.  	 
Anyway, I believe it was good for me to get in touch of English as early in my life as I did. 
Because now I don't have any problems understanding English. 
Of course I have to really strain myself sometimes when a person talks very fast or have got an accent I'm not familiar with. 
All in all I really think I'm competent when it comes to listening to English. 
It's without a doubt my best side about the English language.   
Reading I enjoy reading English litterature. 
Sometimes I can feel that the Swedish language is very boring and then I usually find an English fiction book to relax by. 
Of course I find it easier to read a Swedish book, but I like reading books in their original language, and I guess most authors are American or English.  	 
My big weakness in this area is that the first minutes of my reading a book or something, I look up the words I don't recognize and I write them down. 
After a few minutes though, I get tired of interruppting my reading and I stop to look up words. 
I'm working on getting more patient in this area. 
This was all about fiction books, which I made clear that I like. 
When it comes to reading facts about something like America's government - thats what we are doing in social studies now, I'm not very enthustiatic. 
In those kinds of texts there are often words used that you don't see every day. 
And I already explained how I feel about looking up words. 
I still wouldn't say my reading is bad in this area, I'm just not very fond of that kind of reading.   
Speaking I can speak pretty good and fluent English, I think. 
When I go to another country I usually need a day or two to feel confident enough to speak when I don't have to. 
I don't really know if I have a good accent or not. 
So I'm looking forward to the speaking part this term. 
Then we have the part that makes me uncertain of myself; grammar. 
It's like I don't have time to think about grammar when I talk so I don't know what grammar mistakes I make, and they are probably quite many. 
I have always been thinking that I would hear if I said something grammatically wrong, and so I havent really bothered to learn the grammar rules. 
Now I understand that I will have to learn them.  
Writing Writing is what I don't like about English. 
I know exactly what I want to write but most often it doesn't go my way. 
I have troubles finding the right words, which makes me repeat myself. 
And very often as soon as I have written a sentence I erase it because it sounds wrong or simply looks wrong. 
In other words I really need writing practise. 	 
I never had much opportunities to practise writing in school, although I had a lot of spelling practise. 
So atleast now I feel pretty confident in spelling.   
Conclusion I would say that my English is good enough to get by on in a foreign country. 
However it's not good enough to teach from. 
What I need to study most is grammar and writing and then I think I can get by quite good. 
I think I have a lot of work to look forward to this term, but also a lot of fun.
