1945, 10 years after Smift's abduction. Innsmouth
A man was running in a dark town. The chasers were holding torches and pitchforks. "Go die you human scum!" one of them growled, the young man was about to fire a pistol to this antagonistic chord when a knife reached the back of this heart. Before he could die he saw these enemies more closely, looking similar to humans, even using casual suits, but this faces were slightly distorted, with a bluish tinge and big eyes. These hands were very close to being webbed. One of them reaches the pockets of the corpse's clothes, finding a diary with a logo in the middle: Miskatonic University.
The next day. at Miskatonic, Massachusetts, Wilhelm Smift was very old, at the age of 68. He was in a bed resting this very frail body. He was accompanied by this young friend Johnathan Clarke. "My dear friend, due to the fact that I will die, and I never had a family before…I will give to you the weapon that can protect humanity from the unknown. But please, pass some of my blood to you so he can perceive you as a member of my family, also you don't need to worry, my blood is not ill, I figured out that the Infinitely Timed Room makes you die of old age once you exited it, and due to the fact that my wife never could give me a child…and she is deceased, you will be my new successor" Clarke used a syringe and injected some of the blood of this predecessor into himself. And then Wilhelm Smift died. The young would be teacher found himself sad, he knows that this mentor had told him of the physical god he mastered. But he wanted to learn more about not only physics but the alien technology as well, but he always told him that "this mind would crack" but how such an old fellow acquired such knowledge and remained sane? He departed to the basement, he knows that such places are only allowed to certain people, but Smift had told him that if he declared himself this son he would pass. The place was light by a single torch. To find a tall humanoid structure close to him, this shadow taller than any man he has seen. "So my master had passed away…such a pity, I wanted to serve him more than no one." The voice was sly, and with a sharp tone. As this mentor said, but right now he sounded…sad? "He was a great man, and me? Only an fucking killer…heh, it's funny…how the good can die, alone and unnoticed…and they stay dead." he noticed John "who we have here?" he stared at the young man and in turn he noticed the mechanical being before him: this main body was cylindrical and red, with a single crimson cat like eye in the center of this "head" this arms have white with red colorations like the rest of this limbs, he had a large rectangular shield in this left arm, a set of three small red pouches and in the right a knife holder and the left a pistol holder, and a white cloth skirt. "What is doing a brat in my home?" he tried this best to gather mental strength and answer: "I am the…son of Wilhelm Smift, he told me you would serve me" the beast looked at him with this single blood colored eye, "I can see trough you…and that is true, the Smift blood is in you kid, I mean master" then the monster grabbed this pistol and started to show it at this server, "so tell me, what shall I do? I am capable for killing anything" he young man tried this best to organize this words and asks: "why do you look different from what my father told me?" the creature chuckles and says: "heh, isn't it obvious? I wanted to look different 'cause I don't want to look like the jackasses that wanted me gone. They made this suit look like a fuckin' asylum inmate . I was looking for something that suited me, so I left my dimension for one day. And I saw the perfect one, this one, why do you ask? 'cause I wanted a new look that minds insurrection?" he pointed this white finger at the young man, that eye…it's just like the devil itself was looking at him. "And the eye?" "Oh…that was my…personal touch" he started to laugh and this companion started to tremble. "Don't be afraid kid…I don't bite, for much that I want to." Azathoth pointed at this "face" revealing that he doesn't have a mouth. Then he started to laugh like a maniac. He kid got out of the basement in fear. "Hey don't get out! I was about to have tell you a great joke! MASTER!"
The next day…"sire, we have bad news, Roy Urkam has…died" a messenger told to this young chief, "and who is that man, messenger?" Clarke asks, "He was a freelance investigator. He heard that something strange happened in Innsmouth so we sent him there, when I came this corpse was on a stick on the end of the road, when I asked they said: "just a couple of kids that did it" it was obvious that was a lie." The kid was…shocked but after scare from yesterday this was nothing. Suddenly a car was coming to the entrance, the occupants got out, they have guns and their eyes had watered eyes that were slightly out of their sockets. And they forced the main door down, "thank god there are not students!" the sire said, Clarke rushed to the basement and yelled the name of this protector and servant. "INVASORS! COME AND KILL THEM! THEY HAVE GUNS!" the young man yelled. "Calm down master, I will go kick their skulls" he got out of this dark lair and he readied this colt pistol and this knife. "Come here! I can sense cowardly in this place!" suddenly a blaze of bullets came from the outside of the campus. "I think I need a bigger gun" he turned this back and then a rectangular and red colored heavy machine gun was grabbed from this holster, the weapon was so tall as the cylinder body of this user and it looked different from any gun ever made: it had a slightly bended square in this top. This barrel had holes and this body was metallic instead of wood. Then he got out of the building and he saw these enemies "Deep ones!" they started to fire but it was useless, the bullets just bounce this tick metal skin. He started firing and he shot 4, the other ones tried to run to the car. "NO YOU WON'T!" Azathoth yelled and he used this incredible strength and stomped the vehicle. "Now we can start this party!" the half deep ones tried to counter attack with this pistols but nothing changed. Azathoth grabbed one and crushed this skull with these bare hands, he shot three to death with this colt and machine gun; he blazed 1 to death with a thick cylindrical magenta/red heat ray that emanated from this crimson eye. "COME ON! GIVE ME A CHALENGE!" he yelled, and then he realized that only one was left. "Oh…damn I wanted a massacre. Well my good friend, come here" but before he can grab this new prisoner a bullet came to this skull, Azathoth saw that 2 more cars came. "Oh…YES MORE FUN!" he welcomed this new "guests" with this heat ray; a few ones changed their ammo and used armor piercing. The bullets were now making dents in the body of the armored god. But then they started to self-repair. "YES, this is the real deal!" he did 4 head shots and destroyed the two cars that came with this heat ray, some of the half fish men tried to enter the house from the back, but they saw with horror a large creature with a vertical mouth and large pink eyes located in both parts of the divided head, he had two right arms fused into one and two left that were identical, with large nails. The main body was shaggy with black and some purple hair. "What in Dagon's name is that!" one of them asked before being eaten by the giant. The ex-outer god was enjoying like a maniac that the cars that he fried had some occupants and they got out of them showered in flames "THAT'S WHAT I CALL EXTRA CRISPY!" the daemon yelled to this frightened fish enemies. Only 5 were left and they tried to run to the exit, but before that can happen Azathoth flicked this finger and the giant vertical mouth monster appeared and lunged to the remaining ones and eaten them. Only one was left…again. "Gug, go were you belong" Azathoth flicked this fingers again and the monstrosity disappeared. "Thanks CLAXTON, thanks Bertie" he returned to the university. It had some gun holes but nothing that can be easily repaired.
"Hey master, are you in one piece?" he asked to the young that was in the ground. He grabbed the shocked boy and handed him to the messenger. Put him in this home. He grabbed the survivor knocked him down with a flick of this finger and put him in the jail of the basement "Well…that was exiting"
