Spoonbill Village, Northernmost Quang Binh Province, SRV
June 30, 2011.
Dreaming of the past was no strange thing for Joseph Clayton over the past year. Before yesterday, the memory had been of his and Marie's last farewell, when she had told him that she was traveling to Vietnam for a one-year "hiatus" of sorts. Now, the memory of which he dreamed was of the occasion of Marie's 18th birthday, some months before she had informed him of her imminent departure. There had been food and gifts from their few friends in the community and, despite the national legal drinking age of 21, Marie was invited by her parents to sample one of the traditional medicinal liquors or Ruou Thuocs of their native village, specifically a distilled rice whiskey of 100 proof in which had soaked a section of beef bone.
Also that night, despite her parents usual diligence, things between Joseph Clayton and Marie had become rather... heated. Just as the dream began to verge into the more pleasurable parts of the experience, a sound woke him quite suddenly. The noise, a sort of odd, whooshing crack...
Gunfire?!
Leaping out of his bed in a panic, Joseph landed face first in very nearly the same place where he had sat last night at dinner. Finally looking up after peeling his cheek off the floor, he saw that with the exception of himself and the normal women of the household (namely Marie, her Aunt and paternal Grandmother), the house was now empty. He had landed in the central depression which housed the table, seating mats and hearth and that was surrounded by the raised platforms where the party and those inhabiting the house had bedded down last night. "What is that?!" Asked Joseph as another volley of cracks sounded, now followed audibly by a command to reload.
Although the question was general, the response he got was specific. "If you mean the gunshots, those are the men doing some target practice." Marie replied as she made to spoon some broth into a bronze bowl.
"Strange, those guys who brought us in didn't look like the type to actually use guns, what with the whole "barbarian" vibe they were giving off." Joseph sat properly at his seat as his girlfriend brought him what turned out to be soup of the kind that she usually favored as an appetizer. After thanking her, he began eating.
"Trust me, the hunters and warriors don't even like to look at firearms; they think they're a demeaning farce of a weapon, 'farmers weapons' as they call them... but given that they're used by the farming men, it's a pretty accurate description." Ladling soup into her own bowl, she sat down beside Joseph at the table.
As the two older women looked on from their own work, the small talk went on between the two young ones: it turned out that these guns were old French repeating rifles from the 1920s rather than a modern Kalashnikov derivative and used an obscure 8mm cartridge that had to be produced by their agents in Vinh.
Then Joseph noticed something else. "You know, I just noticed something about your teeth... they're white."
"Of course they are. I know it may be a bit hard to find toothpaste out here but..." It was then that Marie caught on to what he had meant. "Oh, I guess you want to know why I haven't dyed them black yet, huh?" After Joseph nodded, Marie laid out, at the most basic level, what she wanted to take away from this trip. "Well, I've accepted lots of conditions for this visit. I did the tattooing, I help in the rice paddies, I've gone without modern clothing in almost every fashion, but these babies..." She paused, did a tooth-bearing rictus grin and tapped her incisors with her right index fingernail three times. "I've worked far too long for this shade and I'm not going to sacrifice them just so I can chew Betel nuts as a stimulant. Luckily, Dao managed to wrangle a small coffee supply from the Party minders; for a head priest he's not too bad, especially at this time of the morning."
Somehow, Joseph suspected that this refusal had less to do with cosmetic concerns and more to do with her determination to not turn into a clone of her mother (in all of her paranoid glory) but something else caught his attention. "What time is it, exactly? And where is everyone?" Joseph asked in between bites. Everyone (including his party and Marie's family members) had bedded down last night when the night grew dark and they had run out of things to do to stave off exhaustion. That they weren't here now...
Marie had an air of subtle amusement about her, possessed since untying Joseph last night. "We don't really keep time as an exact science around here. We have morning, evening, dawn, dusk, a rough idea of mid-day... and not much else. Even the passing of the seasons tends to become a blur in the constant raining and mist; without a calendar, time can play tricks on a person up here."
Her boyfriend did not exactly believe this. "You don't have any clocks? I mean... National Geographic even had to edit an alarm clock out of one of their photos in order to make an African hut look 'primitive' enough!"
Having never heard of this before, Marie could only shake her head in a form of self-depreciating humor. "It's like I said once: this place is very rural and has historically been very isolated; it used to take years for news to filter up here from the coast. As to your other question, although I'm unaware of the exact local time, your friends left the house about an hour ago." At this news, Joseph made a move to get up and join his friends (luckily, he had slept in his clothes) but was quickly (and effectively) shoved back down into his seat and told to finish his soup.
According to Marie, the kids had gone up onto the northern terraces with Tracy to show her the rice paddies (as she was ostensibly a farmer like they) while Albert had gone to retrieve their electronic equipment from the watermill where a small water-powered electric generator had been installed by the Border Defense force just a few years before. As to the Prof and his assistant... apparently, there'd been a meeting between some of the village bigwigs last night after the negotiations in the temple and Andover wanted to make sure that all the bad blood, anger and other annoyances had been cleared up before fieldwork was to commence.
As a small aside however, Marie did note that the powder of the Blue Forest Lotus did seem to have a slight lingering effect on those... yet unaccustomed to the strangeness that was apparently all too common in the world. Since Andover, Malone, Tracy and Albert had come from experiences where the paranormal was slightly less para-, they had arisen early, eaten and left without any signs of sloth.
After they finished eating, they returned their bowls to the hearth, thanked the two women and then left to join Josephs fellows who were set to gather in the temple for a meeting with Tsan Pho Dao himself.
The way that they had left while holding hands, however, told Marie's aunt and grandmother that the village matchmaker might be about to encounter another problem regarding Marie... or at the very least, the root of her current problems involving Marie.
Approximately 20 Minutes Later
As two acolytes opened the great double doors of the temple from the inside, Joseph could only gape in awe at the sights before him. The transition from the world outside with it's bright sunlight and high humidity to the world of faintly lit darkness and incense smoke that contained itself within the temple of Spoonbill Village was.. almost magical. Given what he had already heard of, this might not just be a layman's impression.
The interior of the temple also gave the impression of a sort of duality: on one hand, this building was probably the safest place in the village. On the other hand, the very atmosphere exuded by their surroundings, with acolytes working at mysterious duties before the various shrines of dark stone that lined the walls, indicated to any visitor that they just may not leave this building alive, an indication only strengthened by a large block of dark stone at the rear third of the interior. The sides of this almost altar-esqe block of Jadeite were engraved with many characters which appeared to be a bizarre mixture of Khoa Dau (the old script of Vietnam), the curving loops of Javanese and something even odder and older, resembling some of Albert's research on the old Seal Scripts of the Zhou... but not quite. The top of the block was formed into a shallow basin with notches for something of a liquid nature to run down into a series of channels (and from the look of it, recently had). The basin was large enough to hold a buffalo of considerable size and probably had many times over the years.
According to what Marie had told him, it could also hold an adult Human male.
Before the stone was low table on which was spread a yellow silken cloth. Upon the cloth, several strange items in ivory, jade, various metals and wood were placed, all seemingly used for the purpose of divining. However, what was most interesting about the table were the figures which were sitting behind it.
The first and more distinctive figure was that of an old man in an ornate gold headdress and voluminous red robes. While allegedly in his early 70s and not nearly as old as some people he had met, Joseph could see that something had wizened his features to the point where he appeared decades older than he should. What hair could be seen was wispy and white, being contained mostly in a braided beard and a mustache that looked like it might have belonged on Fu Manchu if said character had survived to the age of 126. The man's eyes, however, were clear and bright, and his face held signs of amusement under the formal grimace; Later, Joseph would identify said amusement as the product of the old, sing-song adage of "I Know Something You Don't Know".
But not yet.
Professor Andover, at the head of the party that included his students and Marie, led them to a point just before the low table and motioned them to kneel and bow. When they all knelt, Andover finally spoke in the most reverent tone that Joseph had ever heard applied to this or any other form of Mon-Khmer. "In the spirit of respect and friendship I greet you, Tsan Pho Dao, Oracle of the Jade Bones, Sage of the Blood and Master of the Way of Leng."
Seemingly placated by the proper formal greeting, Tsan Pho Dao answered back.. but not in the way that everyone was expecting him to.
"And in the spirit of Peace and Hospitality I greet you, Professor Neville Andover of Miskatonic University." Replied the Chief Priest... in perfect, unaccented English. As a few heads raised and eyes gazed at him in surprise, the Priest shrugged and offered an explanation. "A Language Acquisition Spell: sacrifice a pig and the world opens up to you. Now, I believe that you were to explain the purpose of this visit, were you not?"
Recovering remarkably well, Neville Andover explained exactly what he wanted to come out of this short, hopefully first survey. As the professor laid out the intricacies of the ethnographic process including both "emic" and "etic" (subject and researcher-derived, respectively) observations of daily life and material culture, interviews, historical research and recording of various events, Joseph slowly became aware of something. The first thing he noticed was that Marie's left hand, still held and being held by his right hand as they sat next to each other, was exerting a steady pressure that was much increased from when they were walking toward the temple or entering it. He also found that she was looking sideways towards the second figure near the altar stone,
This figure was a woman, somewhere between 60 and 70 years of age and rather less weathered than the man she sat beside and slightly to the rear of, her facial tattoos an asymmetric collection of delicate swirls and tiny trapezoids. Dressed in a fine formal gown of red and dark blue silk with gold filigree, she wore many sorts of jewelry from combs in her gray hair to bracelets of jade and gold on her wrists and even pendants and beads dangling from the ends of the jade hairpins that seemed to be ubiquitous in the hairstyles of married women in this village. Whereas this woman wore an expression of serene indifference, the look what Marie was giving her could easily be described as "stink-eye". While Joseph had been privy to a very mild version of this expression when he had almost implied cannibalism on the menu of her parents restaurant, the last time he had witnessed the full force of such a look was when they were in the fifth grade and a classmate had the gall to insult her parent's tattoos.
"And Albert Noyes.. you know of the Whisperers? The mushrooms of Yuggoth?" Tsan Pho Dao asked, examining the oracular bauble on the table which apparently indicated Noyes background. Joseph's attention was brought back to the conversation by this question and the affirmative answer from Albert. "Tell me then..." Asked Dao. "Have you encountered the Bringer of Strange Joy?"
"Not face to face and neither have any others in my town. I've heard of it... but almost as a legend across space and dimensions." Albert shrugged. "I still don't understand what it really is."
"Nobody ever truly does." Dao replied sagely before moving onto the next token. Upon picking up and examining a piece of carved buffalo horn, his eyes flickered to Ms. Williams. "It seems that you share something with our people, Ms. Williams. The bones indicate that you have participated in the rites of sacrifice, much as we do?"
"Yes, but like I've said before, we've only ever sacrificed our own livestock. I once helped to hold down a pig, alright but... I don't know, we never wanted to kill people and we never needed to. Some of the other groups we keep running into, though..." Tracy sighed after she realized that she had almost began rambling. "We try so hard to keep all of the weirdos in line year after year... and year after year it's always the same: some crazy bastard tries to sneak in a human sacrifice, we get pissed and threaten to call the cops, they try to blackmail us into allowing it and then the saner worshipers just take the intended victim back where they came from, none the wiser on where they were. I just worry that someday, something horrible will happen on our doorstep and that we'll be blamed while the assholes slink off into the woods." She then looked up at the Chief Sorcerer in embarrassment. "I'm sorry that you had to hear that.. and sorry about the "crazy bastard" crack. I'm sure you're a very nice person."
Affecting a look of near-pity, Tsan Pho Dao offered a little of what he had seen in her future. "The stress of such a life can be hard to bear... but I sense that help has already held out a hand. All that remains is for someone to be brave enough to accept it." As Tracy thought this bit of fortune-cookie wisdom over, the priest turned his head towards Joseph, who opened his mouth to speak. However, Dao held up two claw-like fingers to stop him. "We know of you, Joseph Clayton and as of yet, nothing much outside the norm have you gazed. However, I would appreciate hearing the reasons on why you ceased playing your sport when you ventured away from home."
Already prepared for such clarity of soothsaying, the young man shrugged. "It turns out that I wasn't tall enough to play college basketball. However, even if I had been.. I don't I would have been content to play for a team which called itself the, and I quote, 'Mommas Boys'." Albert groaned in embarrassment at the name while Tracy found reason to snicker, both knowing that the Miskatonic "MB's" were a long-time running punchline for the college leagues.
With that interlude over, assignments were made. Tracy, coming from farm country, would stay with Marie's Grandparents, conduct interviews among the farmers and record their daily lives, up to and including working alongside them on the terraced rice paddies. Albert, displaying more aptitude with technology due to his communities alliance with the so-called "Mi'go", would be stationed at the household of the Village Bronze-caster, who supplied many of the tools and utensils of the village. As they were also one of the most socially connected families in the village, the large house they inhabited would make an ideal central base for the expedition.
Malone, as he had existing skills and reputedly the strongest stomach, would cover the operation of the Temple and thus be overseen by Professor Andover, who would be staying there as well. As for Joseph... for Joseph, it was decided, quite surprisingly, that he would live in the house of the hunters that had encountered the party.
As the guests rose and began filing out, Tsan Pho Dao watched the retreating figures intently until the door closed behind them. He turned to the woman sitting beside him. "Well, that certainly explains why the girl has rebuffed all of the potential suitors you pushed her way."
The woman's mask of indifference gave way to shock and then the stirrings of anger. "You mean... him?! Are you saying that she, of her own accord, chose some foreign devil instead of one of her own kind?"
"I wouldn't be that harsh on the boy. He's appears not of the same fragile, treacherous mindset as the others we have encountered... if his having come this far without screaming is any indication." Since this morning, Dao had know that something like this was coming; his wife was comfortable in both her power and her confidence in her decisions and a conflict was bound to happen given the way Thuch and Thanh had raised their daughter in the West.
"You know what I mean! It was bad enough that her parents gave her a French name and now she's been consorting with one of them as well!"
Dao sardonically smiled. "I'm fairly sure that the boy is English; they and the French have the kind of mutual dislike for each other that we and the Han do. As to the boy himself, I've put him far away from where Marie is staying, but she still will have to act as an interpreter for the group." He picked up a small, silvery disc from the table and began to examine it. "But given her confidence in him, I feel that we should observe what happens before making any moves."
The woman, known now only by her title of Matchmaker and by a few in her past by the name of Chau, looked at her husband in an appraising way. "You know something, don't you?"
Still gazing at the disc that had told him something of the Clayton boy, a Unites States quarter-dollar coin circa 1961, Dao chose his words carefully. "What I know is dwarfed by what I suspect. But... what I do know is that there is something about this boy... something that you may have to take into consideration. The threads of his fate show that something is about to pull at them... but whether for good or ill or who will pull, I do not know."
He did not know but, as his gaze lifted from the coin (specifically a series of scratches upon the face of Washington) towards a winding pattern of black fretwork above the main door, he suspected that whatever may be coming toward the boy would be very familiar indeed.
Spoonbill Village, Early Afternoon
June 30, 2011.
As part of his integration into the community, Joseph had acquiesced into wearing the local clothing: a kilt and short sleeved jacket in brown cotton with geometric patterns of black lines and dots.
However, there was one piece of clothing that the young man was already beginning to miss.
"You mean everyone goes commando around here? Couldn't I have at least kept my boxers on?" Having never dressed this way outside his regular use of towel or robe for showering, Joseph was having a bit of trouble getting used to it.
"Yes we do and no, you can't have your shorts back; those things absolutely stunk! Heavens know what was going on in there." As they made their way from her grandparents house to their destination, materials and devices at hand, they were drawing a fair amount of stares from people going about their business, most of them absolutely bewildered by the conversation that was going on. However, Joseph could have imagined that in that last statement there was some... not amusement, although Marie's tone since he had gotten his head off the metaphorical chopping block indicated that she was much more at ease in this place than he was. But there had been a hint of suggestion, a certain playfulness of tone that suggested that she knew full well some of the things which had gone on in those shorts.
And then he connected the "going commando" remark with... Oh dear. "And you..?" Joseph began, quite unsure on how to word the question.
"I've kept that part of my dignity, thank you very much." There was a sense of arrogance and snootiness in Marie's reply, but it was a false arrogance and a playful, imitation snootiness at heart. "Alright, so I cheated a bit but there are things I want to hang onto, even if leaving here becomes... difficult." They stopped in front of a house near the entrance to the village temple.
"Anything I should know about this guy?" Joseph asked his girlfriend, desperate to get his mind out of the gutter.
"First, he's a hunter, archer and scout. He's from the Clan of the Spider, which is one of the really old warrior lineages in this village. Second, he's also got a wife who came from a village in Laos, a Tai speaker, so there may be a language barrier. They have a son in the age range of my younger cousins. Third... well, many of the warriors do a little sorcery on the side. The odd... mutation occasionally pops up." There was again an awkwardness, as she was apparently describing another bit of weirdness that had slipped past the descriptions of last night.
Absorbing this new description and momentarily deciding that his libido was a somewhat more comfortable avenue, Joseph mustered courage and.. well, kissed Marie again. "I love you and... and I promise that if this goes bad, I'll make sure you get out of here." This statement was supposed to be one of affirmation but the worry also showed through.
Momentarily flustered by her boyfriends brashness, Marie nevertheless recovered quickly. "Hey, if things go bad, I'll be the one dragging you out of here..." Here, her tone turned softer, more grateful and more genuine. "But thanks all the same." Everything said, that kind of commitment was nice to have reinforced, even if it did point to some creeping uneasiness with the whole thing.
Still, it was only the second day.
As she went up to the door, Joseph thought that it was probably a good thing that he would not be able to watch her leave... and it was probably also a good thing that neither the mens nor the womens kilts were very snug.
If he wasn't careful, this was going to turn into a very embarrassing few weeks.
