The following day dragged by without incident. I could not concentrate in the lectures and did not do any of the coursework I had been set for I was too highly anticipating the arrival of darkness and my investigation into the disappearance of Jonathan Mears.
When night finally came, I once again let myself into Jonathan's room. Looking around the place, I noticed the laptop on the desk and decided to check it. Finding nothing unusual, I started to go through his notebooks trying to find some clue as to where he had gone. It was in these notebooks that I had my first encounter with the demon known as "Cthulhu". In one of them was the image of a creature, the likes of which I had never before seen in my life. It was humanoid in its basic appearance but had claws on its hands and toes, large dragon-like wings and a bulbous head with tentacles not unlike an octopus. It was neatly coloured in green and beneath the drawing was written the words "CTHULHU CULT".
My initial thoughts on this were that the image was simply a figment of Jonathan's imagination. But however much I tried to dismiss it and look elsewhere, something about the creature depicted on the page forced me to continue looking. It was the eyes of the monster that most entranced me. I felt myself becoming hypnotised as the thing, whatever it was, drew me into the page with its penetrating stare. Those eyes, they seemed so alive, so real…
Suddenly, I dropped the book and leapt backwards in fright, only barely managing to stifle a scream. I was certain that the image had moved, though my rational mind told me that the notion was ludicrous. The tentacles around the figure's head had seemed to extend out of the page towards my face. However, I tricked myself into believing that I was only seeing things as a result of tiredness.
I had only just comforted myself with this idea when I heard hushed voices from outside the door. I recognised them instantly as Jacob and Annie. I kept quiet, but darted under the bed when I realised to my horror that they were entering the room. If they had something to do with Jonathan's disappearance, the last thing I wanted was for them to see me poking around in here. My fears about their involvement in this were soon confirmed when Jacob bent down and picked up the notebook I'd dropped on the floor.
"Someone's been here," he stated in an angry tone of voice I'd never heard him use before and with that, the pair left the room. I clambered out from under the bed to find that all the notebooks and a number of the books from the shelf were missing. I could only guess that that was the reason Jacob and Annie were here in the first place. Although what they wanted them for was a mystery.
And then I did the one thing I know now I should never have done. I decided to follow Jacob and Annie. I could only make out their silhouettes in the darkness when I left my Hall and followed them across the campus. I managed to get quite close, but remained far enough away so that they didn't sense my presence. Then all of a sudden, they turned off the road and headed towards a nearby wood. As we ventured further into the wood, I began to see a dim red glow and hear chants, screams and the banging of drums. When I finally came in sight of the source of the noise, I became frozen in terror.
There was a ring of fire surrounding a tall obelisk, upon which sat a statue of the image I had seen in Jonathan's notebook. The eyes of the statue emitted a bright red glow and it seemed to be moving to the beat of the drums in the firelight. A few dozen people danced maniacally around the fire and there, chained to the obelisk, was Jonathan. Or what was left of him anyway. His decapitated form was upside down, his chest split open. His ribcage had been cleaved in half lengthways and adorned the obelisk near the top. At the base of the obelisk was a small pile of blood, bones and organs, and it seemed as though the intestines had been split into many parts which the cultists were wearing as belts. Jonathan's head was nowhere to be seen. And his was not the only corpse there. The glade was filled with corpses hanging from the trees and offal covered the floor. The whole place stunk of a slaughterhouse and, unable to contain it any longer, I screamed. Immediately, a few of the cultists, including Jacob and Annie, turned in my direction and glared at me with pure hate. I turned and ran, ran as fast I possibly could away from that degenerate ritual.
