You stay dere, Anna!


You can go to hell, both of you! You're just like all the rest of them--you two!
Gawd, you'd think I was a piece of furniture! I'll show you! Sit down
now! Sit down and let me talk for a
minute. You're all wrong, see? Listen to me! I'm going to tell you
something--and then I'm going to beat it. [I'm going to tell you a funny story, so pay attention.
I've been meaning to turn it loose on him every
time he'd get my goat with his bull about keeping me safe inland. I
wasn't going to tell you, but you've forced me into it. What's the dif?
It's all wrong anyway, and you might as well get cured that way as any
other. Only don't forget what you said a minute
ago about it not mattering to you what other reason I got so long as I
wasn't married to no one else.

That's my word, and I'll stick to it!

What a chance! You make me laugh, honest!
Want to bet you will? Wait 'n see! First thing is, I want to tell you two guys something. You was
going on's if one of you had got to own me. But nobody owns me,
see?--'cepting myself. I'll do what I please and no man, I don't give a
hoot who he is, can tell me what to do! I ain't asking either of you
for a living. I can make it myself--one way or other. I'm my own boss.
So put that in your pipe and smoke it! You and your orders!

I wasn't meaning it that way at all and well you
know it. You've no call to be raising this rumpus with me. 'Tis him you've a right--

I'm coming to him. But you--you did mean it that way, too. You
sounded--yust like all the rest. But, damn it, shut up!
Let me talk for a change!

'Tis quare, rough talk, that--for a dacent girl the like of you!

Decent? Who told you I was? Don't go to
sleep, Old Man! Listen here, I'm talking to you now!

Ay don't vant for
hear it. You vas going out of head, Ay tank, Anna.

Well, living with you is enough to drive anyone off
their nut. Your bunk about the farm being so fine! Didn't I write you
year after year how rotten it was and what a dirty slave them cousins
made of me? What'd you care? Nothing! Not even enough to come out and
see me! That crazy bull about wanting to keep me away from the sea
don't go down with me! You yust didn't want to be bothered with me!
You're like all the rest of 'em!

