 Why do we have a Monarchy in Sweden? 
Doesn't it just cost a lot of money?  
Well, yes, it does cost money. 
Every Swedish citizen pays 4.50 Swedish Crowns every year for the upholding of the Royal Family. 
But a President with his/her staff also cost both in added bureaucratic and in salaries. 
There are many countries with only a representative President. 
The President would have the same tasks as our King, the only thing is the you Elect the President (yet another thing that cost money). 
And you really have to look beyond the cost in money. 
It's tradition, even more than tradition; it's our heritage. 
The Monarchy defines Svea Rike, The Royal Kingdom of Sweden. 
Without the Monarch, Sweden wouldn't exist as it is. 
It would be something completely else. 
It is deeply rooted in the Swedish mentality.   	
Before the revision of the Swedish Constitution in 1974, Sweden had the next oldest Constitution. 
In accordance with the new constitution the Swedish Monarchs is: 	' The Chief of State ' Chairman of Cabinet meetings in times of Government switches and informative meetings  Chairman of the Advisory council on foreign affairs  The Formal leader of all Defense forces The one who accredit all Swedish and foreign diplomats in Sweden 	These obligations would have to be taken over by a President and staff.  
The Royal Family does serve a purpose, They are the Ambassadors of Sweden. 
They are our face to the world. 
The King represents Sweden by traveling around in the world, visiting other countries Heads of State. 
The King represents Sweden in many business deals, not so much as he does anything. 
He just makes things easier for the businessmen. 
The King and Queen are also present at big openings for foreign aid projects in the third world. 
And openings of hospitals and other charity work. 
The Swedish Queen has a special place in her heart for children. 
The Swedish King is very environmentally oriented, and is the guardian of many environment organizations. 
He was one off the initiative takers of the United Nations Environment Department.    
The King holds audiences for foreign Ambassadors at the Royal Castle. 
It is one of the Kings many obligations. 
The Ambassadors will most likely get impressed by the splendor in an audience, and also be honored by it. 
You should keep in mind that very few countries are Democracies. 
Most countries have leaders that rule by other types of Government. 
They respect the Swedish King. 
All these representation is good for Sweden. 
We establish friendly relations with countries all over the world. 
We get a tremendous amount of goodwill. 
And that is good for Swedish import/export businesses.   
The Royal Family is well liked in Sweden. 
They are both down-to-earth people and royalties. 
There is always some friendly gossip about a member of the Royal Family. 
The older Princesses are held in high regard. 
People follow what they do in the tabloids and press. 
I was amazed by how popular the Princesses were. 
When I think of the Royal Family I think of the King, the Queen, the Crown princess, the Prince and the Princess. 
But older people follow the doings of the whole Royal Family. 
And that includes the old Prince's and Princesses. 
In a recent poll the Swedish Queen was the most liked and respected Royalty in the world. 
Number two is the British Mother Queen.  
The main counter argument against a Democratic Monarchy is that it isn't Democratic to have a Hereditary Monarch. 
But as the Monarch doesn't have any political power I don't see what they are arguing about. 
I this current Monarchy the King try to keep his political opinions to himself and so he is apolitical. 
The problem with an elected President at this post would be that he/she would be a political person. 
And would therefore not represent the country in the best way. 
The Presidency is for short times and would fluctuate depending on public opinion. 
The King is always the King.
