 Is TV Violence Dangerous to Our Children?  
If TV violence is a danger to our children is a controversial question that have been debated for years. 
Some people mean that the violence on TV has a negative effect on young viewers no matter what the home conditions are. 
Other people are of the opinion that it is not entirely TV violence that makes the young generation violent. 
They claim other effects as neglectful parents, domestic violent, social problems in a combination with TV violence will make them violent towards other people. 
And then there are those that says it is a question that is overdramatized, claiming the kids know it's not for real. 
However that may be with this issue it is a parental responsibility to make sure that our children are not exposed to all too much films containing violence.  
Recently I read an article where research from both Sweden and Norway said that juvenile delinquents looked at film whit excessive violence just to get some new impulses as they could use when they got into a fight. 
Or a group of kids watched a film together just to get incited before they went down town prepared for a fight. 
Those young people came mostly from families where the parents did not have any rules about anything, including TV and video watching. 
Those kids started to watch violent films at an early age without any adult present.   
I think it can be dangerous to let the children look at everything without any control from the parents, like the article shows. 
We have all a parental responsibility towards our children. 
And we have to make up rules about what the kids can and cannot watch on TV, even if there will be strongly objections to the rules. 
I know it is easier said then done because we can not control what the children are watching all the time. 
For instance if one have forbidden the children to watch a particular film they may accept that without any objections. 
Or, if they really want to watch the film that have been forbidden, they just go to a friend who have recorded it and watch it at his or her place. 
I have been in that situation a couple of times, when I haven't allowed my son to watch a certain film. 
But afterwards he realised why he was not allowed to watch it, especially when he had a nightmare after a horror film.  
Then there is the question if all violence on TV is dangerous to our children or not. 
I mean there are different kinds of violence on TV for instance in the cartoons, the newscast, and documentary films and those soap operas, which are on every channel nowadays. 
It is not easy to protect our children from TV violence, because there is nothing in the TV program that tells us if the program is appropriate to children or not. 
We have to figure that out ourselves, and that is not an easy task.  
Ones I heard on the radio that children watch TV in their own way therefor they may not see violence as we do. 
After I had heard that I observed my two sons watching a soap opera. 
They made comments on things I did not reflected over. 
And when I tried to discuss something that had happened but they did not understand what I was talking about. 
Whatever research says about TV violence is dangerous to children or not I belief that we shall not let them sit alone in front of the TV all the time. 
It is much better to keep them company and watch TV with them. 
And make sure that they understand that the eventual violence is something they can't use in a fight the same way as they do on TV. 
And of cause one shall never fight.
