1. 
Introduction  English is one of the most spoken languages in the world. 
There are many varieties spread around the whole world, of which British English and American English are the two largest groups. 
Many young people today chose to spend a year or more in the United States to either study or work. 
Since we Swedes have been taught English in school since the fourth grade the language should not cause any big problems. 
Nevertheless there are differences between the school English, which is most often British English, and the American variety. 
I was myself a foreign exchange student in Minnesota and have experienced the variation in vocabulary. 
In some cases it would have been nice if I had known the correct word, it could have saved me from embarrassing moments. 
Therefor I think it is interesting to see what words and how many that are different in the two languages. 
Are there any word classes that differs the most and within any special areas?  
1.2. 
Material and method  I have used the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English and International English by P. 
Trudgill and J. 
Hannah. 
To find out how frequent it is that words are different I took out the first 1,000 words of the letters A, B, C, and D, a total of 4,000 words from Longman. 
I looked at the words to find out which ones that had different forms but the same meaning in the two languages and also which words that only exist in American English respectively British English. 
This method may not be completely accurate though. 
First because Longman Dictionary comes from the British National Corpus, and even though it contains many American words I believe the result would look different if I had used an American edition of a dictionary. 
Secondly, many words that are different are slang words and all of them are naturally not represented in this dictionary. 
It does however show the frequency of different words in more formal written and spoken English.  
When I looked at different areas of words where there were differences between the two languages I used both Longman and International English by P. 
Trudgill and J. 
Hannah. 
In this investigation I only included words that are different not ones that exist in one only one of the languages. 
I have not all included every word that is different, and this investigation is based on my own associations with the areas so if someone else would have done it it would probably not have looked te same.  
2. 
Result of frequency investigation  Of the total number of 4,000 words I found 248 that differed in some way between AmE and BrE. 75 words had different forms with the same meaning in the two languages (Appendix 1). 73 words existed only in AmE (Appendix 2), and 100 in BrE (Appendix 3). 
The rest were words can could be used in both AmE and BrE.   
Figure 1  Figure 1 shows the percentage of the kind of different words I found. 
Out of the total number of 4,000 words 1.88% had different forms but the same meaning in the two languages. 
1.83% of the words were only found in AmE and 2.53% in BrE.  
The results of the study of frequency of different words in AmE and BrE shows that there are not so many words that are different, at least not in a dictionary. 
I believe though that there are much more words that differ in the everyday speech in the two countries, if one include slang words and dialect differences. 
The investigation shows though that a British person can communicate with an American without any problems.  
When I looked at what word classes the words belonged to I found that 85.5% of all words were nouns, 6.5% adjectives, 6% verbs, 1.2% adverbs and 0.008% interjections. 
The nouns are obviously the most common word class that differs between the languages. 
It was also the case when I looked at the letters individually. 
Of the 73 words that were only found in AmE 78.1% were nouns, 8.2% verbs, 7% adjectives, 2.7% adverbs and 1.4% interjections. 
Also of the 100 only BrE words the nouns were most frequent, 87% nouns, 8% adjectives, 3% verbs, 1% adverbs and 1% interjections.  
Figure 2  Figure 2 shows clearly that the nouns with 85,5% are the word class that differ the most in the two languages.   
There are several factors that tribute to the change in vocabulary between the two languages. 
When Britain colonized North America new words and experiences had to be named and they did that by taking already existing BrE words or invent new ones, also technological and cultural developments have caused differences in the vocabulary. 
A third reason is the influence of other languages (Trudgill and Hannah, 1985:75-6). 
This is, I believe, the most important cause today, since many people from all over the world immigrate to the United States. 
There they are mixed up with several nationalities and have to learn to communicate with each other, in that way many new words arises, many of which are loan words from their native languages.   
3. 
Words in special areas   If one look at words from different areas one can see that there are many words with the same meaning but not the same form. 
In many fields the vocabulary is quite different. 
I looked at three areas where the vocabulary differs, education, food, and clothing.  
3.1. 
Education  In the area of education there are several words that are different in AmE and BrE. 
Since the two countries do not have the same school system there are naturally words that only exist in one of the languages and not in the other. 
Therefor there are many AmE words for which one can not find a corresponding word in BrE and vice versa. 
I believe many foreign exchange students may have had some problems in an American high school.   
3.1.1. 
Table 1 - educational word that differed  AmE			BrE Eraser			Rubber Semester			Term Principal			Head teacher Class			Course Vacation			Holiday Bulletin board		Notice board Freshman			Fresher Grade			Mark Field day			Sport day Drop-out			School-leaver Grade			Form Prom			Ball Sophomore			Second year student  Table 1 shows words that have the same meaning but not the same form in the AmE and BrE,  There are also a few words that are used in both languages but have different meanings. 
Junior and varsity are two such words. 
In AmE a junior is a student who is in his second year in high school, while a junior in Britain is a pupil in a junior school and between 7-11 years old. 
Varsity is a common word in the US used for the main team in a sport that represents the school. 
It is not a very common word in BrE but it exists as an old-fashioned word for a university, especially Oxford or Cambridge.		  
3.2. 
Food  3.2.1. 
Table 2 - food words that differed  AmE			BrE Squash			Marrow Zucchini			Courgettes Rutabaga			Swede Egg plant			Aubergine Cookie			Biscuit Biscuit			Scone Cracker			Biscuit Dessert			Pudding Jelly			Jam Potato chips		Crisps French-fries		Chips Wastebasket		Bin Silverware			Cutlery uffin tin			Cake tin Spatula			Fish slice Faucet			Tap  Table 2 shows words that are different in form but not in meaning in the two languages  3.3. 
Clothing   3.3.1. 
Table 3 - clothing words that differed  AmE				BrE Garter				Suspender Underpants				Knickers Smock				Overall Pantyhose				Tights Tuxedo				Dinner jacket Sweater				Jumper Undershirt 			Vest ock Turtle			Turtle neck Turtle neck			Polo neck Pants				Trousers Sneakers				Plimsolls  Table 3 shows words that are different in form but not in meaning in the two languages  4. 
Conclusion  After studying a total of 4,000 words in Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English I found only 248 words that were different in AmE and BrE. 
Some of them had different forms but same meanings, while some were only found in AmE and some in BrE. 
In the investigation on word classes I found that the majority of the words were nouns.   	
In my investigation on words in the areas of education, food and clothing, I found every day words that are different in America and Britain.   
This investigation is based on a dictionary taken from the British National Corpus. 
It did not show many differences between the languages, but I beloieva that if i had used an American dictionary as a complement I would have gotten a different result. 
Many o fthe words I found in Longman could be used in both AmE and BrE, but often a word that was common in for example AmE was not so frequently used in BrE. 
This means that even though a BrE word is not used in the United States, it is often understood anyway, it may just sound strange. 
A foreigner with knowledge of BrE can manage without any major problems in the United States of America.  
5. 
Appendixes  5.1 Appendix 1- Words that were different in AmE and BrE  AmE				BrE Rappel				Abseil Absentee vote			Postal vote Gas pedal				Accelerator Airplane				Aeroplane Age discrimination			Ageism Advice column			Agony column BB gun				Air gun All-around				All-round Allen wrench			Allen key Aluminum				Aluminium Football				American football Video arcade			Amusement arcade			 Baby carriage			Pushcart Formula				Babymilk Babysitter				Childminder Bachelor party			Stag night Back talk				Backcha Tease				Backcomb Band-Aid				Elastoplast Bank card				Cheque card Banker's order	 		Standing order Bar graph				Bar chart Bar hop				Pub-crawl Bartender				Barman/barmaid Barrette				Hair slide Baseboard				Skirting board Beauty mark			Beauty spot Beet				Beetroot Bellhop				Bellboy Bell pepper			Capsicum Beltway				Ring road Bias tape				Bias binding Ferris wheel			Big wheel Billy club				Truncheon Garbage collector			Binman Caboose				Guard's van Cabstand				Taxi rank ooch				Cadge Cake pan				Cake tin Call-in				Phone-in Calling card			Visiting card Call letters			Call sign Campground				Campsite Can				Tin Canadian bacon			Bacon Candy				Sweet Cotton Candy 			Candyfloss Trailer				Caravan Card catalog			Card index Career canselor			Careers officer Janitor				Caretaker Parking lot			Car park Carryall				Holdall Portacrib				Carrycot Carry-out				Takeaway Slingshot				Catapult edian strip			Central reservation Certified mail			Recorded delivery Channel surf			Channel hop CPA				Chartered accountant Charter member			Founder member Talk show				Chat show AmE				BrE Checkerboard			Draughtboard Checking account			Current account Check-room				Cloakroom  5.2 Appendix 2 - Selection of words only found in AmE  Absentee ballot			All-fired All-nighter			Alum Alumni				Bad guy Beauty parlor			Bedroll Bare-assed				Bassinet Baggage car			Billfold Barfly				Barf Bach				Balky Cabin fever			Cakewal Candy cane 			Candy apple	 Candy stripper			Careen Caregiver				Care package Chaparral				Chap-book Dentine				Dang Davenport				Day camp Desk clerk				Dibs Deadhead				Diddly Dean's list			Deep six  5.3. 
Appendix 3 - Selection of words only found in BrE  Abattoir			About-turn Advert			Aerodrome	 Ambulanceman		Aftercare Aggro			Air hostess Airy fairy			Air letter Barmy			Barney Barrack			Baddie Barrow boy			Bathing trunks Batty			Banana skin Bap			Beef burger Cardigan			Caff Card vote			Cagoule Cakehole			Camiknickers Canoodle			Caravanning Carer			Chap Dab hand			Daft Des res			Derv Denier			Day tripper Desk tidy			Day pupil Did-dums			Dickybird  6. 
References  Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English. 
1995. 3rd edition.  
Great Britain: Clays Ltd.  
Trudgill P. and J. 
Hannah. 
1985. 
International English, pages 75-6, 79-80.
