Maybe good old Santa Claus will come after all. Vell, if he
does I want to be ready for him.  Come, Yakob and Hans and Mieze,
let us hang up our stockings here under the burning candle. 

Christ was born on the Christmas Day, wreathe the holly, twine the bay! Light and Life
and Joy is He, the Babe, the Son, the Holy One of Mary!

Meeny and Yakob and Hans and leetla Mieze have hung up their
stockings for the good-a Saint Nicholas, but in Italy we set out our
shoes, so! And we always get them full of presents.

 I like stockings much better than shoes already, because the
stockings can stretch yet, und if they stretch real, real wide out
maybe we can get a baby piano or a automobile in our stockings. Jah,
stockings is mooch better als shoes.

 Here is my beautiful star.  That will
remind us of the Star of Bethlehem that led the three Wise Men across
the hills and plains of Judea unto the little manger where,
surrounded by cattle and oxen, amid the straw, the Lord of Heaven was
born on Christmas Eve.

 Und all the angels sang, "Peace on earth, good will to
men," didn't they, Klinker?

Und all the shepherds heard them, and they followed the star
and came to the manger to see the little Baby.

Let us all sit down here in front of the candle and the star,
and see if old Santa Claus has forgotten us already. It's almost time
for him to be coming.
 Oh, I do hope Santa Claus will come and visit us tonight. But
of course he cannot go every place. Some children have to be left out.

Yes, that's so; but I hope it ain't us. Don't you, Schwillie
Willie Winkum?

Sure, I do. I wish old Santa would hurry up and come,
'cause the old Sandman is here already. I'm getting awful sleepy.

 Me--I'm getting awful sleepy, too.

 I wonder what has become of Anita? She said she had a
wonderful secret that was-a verra, verra grand.

A secret, Tomasso?

Yes, a great, beeg, grand-a secret.

Oh, what is it, Tomasso?

Yes, Tomasso, tell us vot it is already.

Sure, if there's anything on earth I _do_ love, it's a secret.
