
Impossible!

Yes, it is true.

A common sailor? Oh fie!

I blush for the weakness that allows me to cherish such a passion.
  I hate myself when I think of the depth to which I have stooped
  in permitting myself to think tenderly of one so ignobly born, but I
  love him! I love him! I love him! 

Come, my child, let us talk this over. In a matter of the heart I
  would not coerce my daughter--I attach but little value to rank or
  wealth, but the line must be drawn somewhere. A man in that
  station may be brave and worthy, but at every step he would commit solecismsthat
  society would never pardon.

Oh, I have thought of this night and day. But fear not,
  father, I have a heart, and therefore I love; but I am your daughter, and therefore
  I am proud. Though I carry my love with me to the tomb, he shall
  never, never know it.
You are my daughter after all. But see, Sir Joseph's barge
  approaches, manned by twelve trusty oarsmen and accompanied by
  the admiring crowd of sisters, cousins, and aunts that attend him
  wherever he
  goes. Retire, my daughter, to your cabin--take this, his
  photograph, with you--it may help to bring you to a more reasonable frame of mind.

 My own thoughtful father!

Over the bright blue sea
                    Comes Sir Joseph Porter, K.C.B.,
                      Wherever he may go
                    Bang-bang the loud nine-pounders go!
                      Shout o'er the bright blue sea
                    For Sir Joseph Porter, K.C.B.

   
            Sir Joseph's barge is seen,
                 And its crowd of blushing beauties,
            We hope he'll find us clean,
                 And attentive to our duties.
            We sail, we sail the ocean blue,
                 And our saucy ship's a beauty.
            We're sober, sober men and true
                 And attentive to our duty.
            We're smart and sober men,
                 And quite devoid of fe-ar,
            In all the Royal N.
                 None are so smart as we are.


