
              Won't it be a pretty wedding?
                    Will not Lisa look delightful?
              Smiles and tears in plenty shedding--
                    Which in brides of course is rightful
                    One could say, if one were spiteful,
              Contradiction little dreading,
 	Her bouquet is simply frightful--
              Still, 'twill be a pretty wedding!
              Oh, it is a pretty wedding!
                    Such a pretty, pretty wedding!

	       If her dress is badly fitting,
                    Theirs the fault who made her trousseau.

    If her gloves are always splitting,
                    Cheap kid gloves, we know, will do so.

      If upon her train she stumbled,
                    On one's train one's always treading.

      If her hair is rather tumbled,
                    Still, 'twill be a pretty wedding!

     Such a pretty, pretty wedding!



              Here they come, the couple plighted--
                    On life's journey gaily start them.
              Soon to be for aye united,
                    Till divorce or death shall part them.

  
        Pretty Lisa, fair and tasty,
                    Tell me now, and tell me truly,
              Haven't you been rather hasty?
                    Haven't you been rash unduly?
              Am I quite the dashing sposo
                    That your fancy could depict you?
              Perhaps you think I'm only so-so?
              Well, I will not contradict you!

     No, he will not contradict you!

       Who am I to raise objection?
                    I'm a child, untaught and homely--
              When you tell me you're perfection,
                    Tender, truthful, true, and comely--
              That in quarrel no one's bolder,
                    Though dissensions always grieve you--
              Why, my love, you're so much older
                    That, of course, I must believe you!

      Yes, of course, she must believe you!


              If he ever acts unkindly,
              Shut your eyes and love him blindly--
              Should he call you names uncomely,
              Shut your mouth and love him dumbly--
              Should he rate you, rightly--leftly--
              Shut your ears and love him deafly.
