Day 1-I never would imagine such thing would happen, in this diary I will document my strange and disturbing events. Once I was a normal respected teacher at Miskatonic, and then a member of this "great race" appears and teleports me to this place…it's just too surreal, this place is a gigantic library, whit knowledge of humanity and more…this large creature it's just disgusting, I just never saw something like this, it's just bizarre. The flowers are just biologically impossible, but they are there. I am a prisoner? This place is huge, the race it's big! Like a small building, I just imagine how impossibly big an entire city would be…I am like a mouse in a skyscraper. I try my best to sleep…god have mercy upon me. I have difficulty knowing what is day and what is night…because there are not windows, I have a theory that this place is underground. A few minutes after wandering around, my captor opens the massive door, ah I have forgotten, this room is almost alone without objects of my size, the only thing here is a giant sized TV with a typewriter on it. What kind of technology these creatures possess? I see that the giant clicks these claws constantly…why? It's some sort of communication? Suddenly he throws to me a metal box with a button on top of it, "what sort of thing is this, creature?" I ask. The giant just clicks this right claw. Without any other option I push the small cylinder, and nothing noticeable happens. But then it makes a long series of clicks again and the box suddenly begins to…talk: "hello Wilhelm. I am a Yithnian, and I want your help. I have seen with horror that a god will crash-land on earth in two weeks! He is trapped in a suit that will retrain this great and immeasurable power. I will travel in time to bring him to you so we can begin our project" suddenly he disappeared in an after-image. The thing he said…it was unbelievable a god exists, and he wants my help.
Day…2 (i suppose) I been alone in this blank room for 4 hours…and when I was taken it was 1:30. Ok that is not the point. In this room there some sort of big book shells that dwarf by a few inches the aliens. I have opened the door to reveal that I was right, if this would be a city of gigantic size I would be like a mouse. Thousands of skyscrapers roam the underground dome that sustains the cave. This is just massive. One of the tallest buildings on earth will be like an electric floor fan compared to these hulks. It's just frightening to try to hide from these monsters. I still don't get why my captor doesn't appear yet. The buildings are made from a metal that is am mesh of golden with gray, and almost every one of them is rectangular. Three minutes remain of this wait and I see that the yith creature has returned, with a strange being in this arm. Also a book of my size; the creature started to click and the machine started to speak: "I ask forgiveness Wilhelm, the time machine broke and I needed to fix it. Here it is…the great lord of the Outer gods, the blind idiot entity that everyone fears: Azathoth! My luck, our luck could not be greater my friend! He was trapped in the technology of my people and Mi-Go's we can make him anything we want!" after handing me the book I have a better look at the "God" before me. He had a suit with long limbs; this head was highly (and horrifyingly) similar to the shape of the tall Flatiron Building in New York, in this top there were two small triangles that made the illusion of horns or wolf like ears. Little red lines in both sides of the face, (I suppose eyes) the helmet also it was colored silver. I also notice that this body has a light brown straightjacket like appearance. This right and left hands have black gloves (I suppose) with slightly long conical golden claws half of the fingers. These feet and legs are even more bizarre: black to the knees with silver to the lateral malleolus. The feet are the most structurally insane: it looks like a golden flat spike. It appears that this creature is unconscious. The book has revealed me some clues: Azathoth he is the most powerful entity in our universe, also the creator of a creator of other gods! The yiths are the race of my captor. They want to use the knowledge of my race to their disposal, what one? I dare not to put it in this diary…it would make anyone insane. The creature "spoken" to my again about why I am here; "I want to give to the Outer God a new chance, one to redeem him/itself to use it as a tool for good. I will train you in a place that I made where time is infinite, where you don't need to eat, you will not exhaust, where you will not age. There I will make you a super intelligent being, due to the fact that there is technology of my race you will need to learn it. And you will make Azathoth something more than human." After that a door on a wall suddenly appeared, the place inside of it was blank grey. I am surprised of what I will do…I will create something to fight the unknown evil of this world! We will make this monster my monster! The yith told me that the place where we will go is applied named: Infinitely Timed Room.
Day 3- the I.T.R. was excellent as a place for learning. I reckon I was there for 200 months. But I am fine to say the least. I finally learned how to manipulate the suit. It was revealed to me that there is a cube that reduces size inside of the helmet. There is a computer inside of that cube that can be modified. If I do that I can change Azathoth into a thinking creature. Also I will make him learn how to change the suit into anything he wants. I get a closer look at the monster and I can assume that he is still unconscious, or he doesn't know how to move. Thanks to a machine I built inside the I.T.R. a metal glob that can change into any human or eldritch tool I call it the anytool. I can mentally command it and only me, I change it into a buzz saw that cuts the center of the helmet. I see with awe that there are two metal cubes inside it. The one on the right has a circular window I see with my own mortal eyes what is in there: the thumb–sized daemon sultan himself. He was shaped like a tridimensional ellipse, in this surface it was covered with something similar to eggs of a fish or an amphibian, they divided the creature into two tones: in the right there where white "eggs" and only 3 black ones, there were 4 spiked eggs and white five tubes that have mouths. In the left there are only black eggs and 3 spiked white ones, 2 big human like jaws were located in the far left. Behind it there where mangled tentacles and claws. I see all this thanks to the anytool that I shaped into a microscope.
The boxes where lead colored and they were 7cm tall and 7cm breadth. The one that is located upside is the one that constrains him and these powers, there is a mirror in the floor of the cube, the downer cube creates an incredibly thin ray that points into the mirror of the upper cube (they are epilated into a vertical position) that ray is the one that maintains this concurrent size. I cut the cube where the visor is and I slowly modify it.
Day 4-I finally finalized the modification, and I closed the helmet. I created a level system: Level 1 makes him use a small bit of this power, with strength capable of lifting 50 tons. Level 2 makes him capable of creating creatures of this own, and this strength are enough powerful to level 10 buildings, Level 3…this one makes him use a quarter of this real power, he is capable of destroying a world with energy based blasts. And this physical strength is unmeasurable. Also I programed the cube (that works like a brain for Azathoth) to only to obey me, but to follow orders of any successor or member of my family.
After a few hours the former god awakens and these first words are understandable: "where…I am, what I am?" this voice is deep and stern. I shudder what this reaction will be when I tell him the truth. Thankfully I made the upper cube make the thump sized monster a fast learner. "My name is Wilhelm Smift, your master. Your name is Azathoth." The knight like creature stares at me; "yes…Thou art. But please answer me who am i?" "You were a powerful creature, a god. But technological creatures transferred you into a body that constrains your power. Thankfully I have modified it to have a mind that thinks, that talks, without me you would be a blind idiot, all powerful Imbecile! You were a leader of other gods but you never made to them any commands, you where mindless. Now in turn serve me Azathoth, I will make you a tool for justice!" the creature bows before me, but then to my fear I hear a chilling laugh, "Why are you laughing daemon sultan?" he talks to me slowly "I will become a tool for extermination, isn't it master? I will become a machine only made for killing…ISN'T IT MASTER?!" he suddenly approaches me, whit these arms wide open. "YOU MADE ME SOMETHING BETTER THAN A MINDLESS FOOL!" he screams to the ceiling. Then he lungs at me, I expected an attack but the demon instead…hugs me. "I can't be more grateful" I don't know what to say, my wishes were answered, but I dread to know why such creature is happy to comply with requests for killing.
