I can't, Annie.

Why can't you?

A woman couldn't rightly understand my reason.

Because it's a stubborn reason. Oh, I heard you
talking with the second mate. You're afraid the other captains will
sneer at you because you didn't come back with a full ship. You want to
live up to your silly reputation even if you do have to beat and starve
men and drive me mad to do it.

It ain't that, Annie. Them skippers
would never dare sneer to my face. It ain't so much what any one'd
say--but--you
see--I've always done it--since my first voyage as skipper. I always
come back--with a full ship--and--it don't seem right not to--somehow. I
been always first whalin' skipper out o' Homeport, and--don't you see my
meanin', Annie? Annie!
Best turn in, Annie, there's a
good woman. You ain't well.

David! Won't you please turn back?

I can't, Annie--not yet awhile. You don't see my
meanin'. I got to git the ile.

It'd be different if you needed the money, but you don't.
You've got more than plenty.

It ain't the money I'm thinkin' of. D'you think
I'm as mean as that?

No--I don't know--I can't understand. Oh, I want to be home in the old house once more, and see
my own kitchen again, and hear a woman's voice talking to me and be able
to talk to her. Two years! It seems so long ago--as if I'd been dead and
could never go back.

Best go to bed, Annie. You ain't well.

I used to be lonely when you
were away. I used to think Homeport was a stupid, monotonous place. Then
I used to go down on the beach, especially when it was windy and the
breakers were rolling in, and I'd dream of the fine, free life you must
be leading. I used to love
the sea then. But
now--I don't ever want to see the sea again.

'Tis no fit place for a woman, that's
sure. I was a fool to bring ye.

How long would it take us to reach
home--if we started now?

'Bout two months, I reckon, Annie, with fair luck.

That would be August, the latter part of August, wouldn't it? It was on
the twenty-fifth of August we were married, David, wasn't it?

Don't you remember?

My memory
is leaving me--up here in the ice. It was so long ago. It's June now. The lilacs will be all in bloom in
the front yard--and the climbing roses on the trellis to the side of the
house--they're budding--

Go in and rest, Annie. You're all worn out cryin'
over what can't be helped.

You love me, don't you, David?

Love you? Why d'you
ask me such a question, Annie?

But you do, don't you, David? Tell
me!

I'm your husband, Annie, and you're my wife. Could there be
aught but love between us after all these years?

Then you do love
me. Say it!

I do, Annie.

I sometimes think if we could only have had a
child--And I've always been a good
wife to you, haven't I, David?

No man has ever had a
better, Annie.

And I've never asked for much from you, have I, David? Have
I?

You know you could have all I got the power to give ye, Annie.

Then do this, this once, for my sake, for God's
sake--take me home! It's killing me, this life--the brutality and cold
and horror of it. I'm going mad. I can feel the threat in the air. I
can't bear the silence threatening me--day after gray day and every day
the same. I can't bear it. I'll go mad, I know I will. Take
me home, David, if you love me as you say. I'm afraid. For the love of
God, take me home!
