       I've at length achieved a capture!
  This is Tessa! Rapture, rapture!

 Rapture, rapture!

 To me Gianetta fate has granted! Just the very girl I wanted!

 Just the very girl he wanted!

 If you'd rather change--

My goodness! This indeed is simple rudeness.

I've no preference whatever--

 Listen to him!  Well, I never!

                  Thank you, gallant gondolieri!
                      In a set and formal measure
                 It is scarcely necessary
                      To express our pleasure.
                      Each of us to prove a treasure,
                 Conjugal and monetary,
                      Gladly will devote our leisure,
                 Gay and gallant gondolieri.
                      Tra, la, la, la, la, la, etc.

	          Gay and gallant gondolieri,
                      Take us both and hold us tightly,
                 You have luck extraordinary;
                      We might both have been unsightly!
                      If we judge your conduct rightly,
                 'Twas a choice involuntary;
                      Still we thank you most politely,
                 Gay and gallant gondolieri!
                      Tra, la, la, la, la, la, etc.

  	      Thank you, gallant gondolieri;
	              In a set and formal measure,
                 It is scarcely necessary
                      To express our pleasure.
                      Each of us to prove a treasure
                      Gladly will devote our leisure,
                 Gay and gallant gondolieri!
                      Tra, la, la, la, la, la, etc.

	           Fate in this has put his finger--
                      Let us bow to Fate's decree,
                 Then no longer let us linger,
                      To the altar hurry we!
From the sunny Spanish shore,
            The Duke of Plaza-Tor!--

And His Grace's Duchess true--

And His Grace's daughter, too--

And His Grace's private drum To Venetia's shores have come:

If ever, ever, ever They get back to Spain,  They will never, never, never
Cross the sea again--

Neither that Grandee from the Spanish shore, The noble Duke of Plaza-Tor'--

Nor His Grace's Duchess, staunch and true--

 You may add, His Grace's daughter, too--

Nor His Grace's own particular drum To Venetia's shores will come:

 If ever, ever, ever They get back to Spain, They will never, never, never
Cross the sea again!

 
