y English education started early, as it does for most Swedes now days. 
Listening to music, watching American TV-shows.... 
I already knew a lot of English when the formal education kicked in. 
At that time it was when you were in forth grade, about 10 years old. 
Today they start earlier, which shows the importance of the English language in the Swedish society.  
As I've been listening to American English (I might point out) all my life, listening to English isn't a problem. 
I understand perfectly. 
I don't have a problem with dialects either in American English, but in British English it is harder when it comes to that. 
Watching the Scottish movie "Trainspotting" without any translation was quite hard. 
My British friend who were with me at the time had a hard time too actually. 
I don't always understand slang words in British, but I do in American English. 
I guess that comes from watching American sit-comes way to much.   
The way I learnt American has to do with my love for music. 
As soon as I could speak I started to sing along to songs on the radio and moms Abba-records. 
Even when the songs were in English and I had no idea what I was singing. 
That is where I got the "rhythm" of the language. 
When I was around five years old my biggest idols were Culture club (British English) and David Bowie (also British English). 
But after the age of seven (when the memory center in the brain starts to function properly) the idols was mostly from USA and Canada. 
I loved Bruce Springsteen, how much more American can it get?   
I've always loved to read. 
But most of my reading I've done in Swedish. 
When I entered Uppsala University as an anthropology student it changed. 
Basically all the literature was in English and even some lectures. 
I found it hard in the beginning, but it got easier and easier. 
Now I prefer to read fiction in English too. 
I think that a story is best told in the language of the writer (no offense to all the very talented translators). 
Two weeks ago I read "animal farm" by George Orwell (which was great by the way), and I think it would have lost some of the books funnier points if it had been in Swedish. 
That definitely goes for comedy. 
I remember when those insensitive bosses at TV 3 tried to change the language of the Simpson's family, from American English to Swedish! 
What a joke! 
People complained so much that they had to change it back. 
I don't think (and hope) they will try a stunt like that again. 
I don't want to have it like in Germany. 
Imagine "Seinfeld" in Swedish? 
Don't think so. 
I would stop watching the show (even though, as I've indicated before, that American sit-comes is a favorite of mine..).  
To speak American English isn't a problem. 
After I graduated from the gymnasium I went straight to the States to live there for a year. 
I was an au pair in an American family. 
I HAD TO speak American all day long, because of the kids. 
The kids were spoiled and behaved badly as kids tend to do sometimes, but they never said anything about that they didn't understand what I said or made fun of my accent. 
That helped me to naturally glide into the language. 
I taught them a lot, but they also taught me. 
After the first month we got along fine and I loved spending time with them. 
Playing with kids is an unusual fun way to learn a language better. 
The only problem I had with pronunciation was with the English "j". 
One of the little girls I was taking care of in Maryland was named "Julia", and I kept on saying "Julia" the Swedish way and she kept on reminding me of the American way "Ddddjulia".   
Writing English has always been my weak point. 
I spell badly and my grammar is awful. 
That's why I signed up for the English course here at Uppsala University. 
I have no idea WHY I say this and not that. 
I just chat. 
When you pressure me with two sentences and ask which one is the grammatical correct one, it is a big chance that I'm not gonna be able to tell you.   
That is all I have to say about me and the English language! 
Cheers!
