Long ago there were only the Elders. They lived enternaly as equals amongst each other in the ever expanding vastness of space. They looked at this empty universe and decided to fill it. But none of them would follow another for that would mean they would be intherior to another, so they decided that they would make lesser beings to craft this universe.
These creatures were given a small portion of the Elders power, and made heinous looking so that they can never be considered equals in anyway. These beings did as what they were made for and filled the universe with planets and stars, but something happend to them, they started to question why they had to be lesser then their 'masters' these beings that made them, their Gods. So they learned new powers and went to war with their creators. They were many but young and weak compared to their Elders.
The war was over as quickly as it began. The lesser beings lost to their Elders and were severely punished for their actions against them. The weakest were imprisoned on the planet that they thrived on for so long, Earth. The mightiest were cast across the universe and separated from each other. The one who lead the rebel, Azathoth, was stripped of his own brain by the Lord Commander of the Elders and sealed in the center of the universe.
He now thrives in an undying anger with only one thought in his mind, or at least what's left of his mind, the thought was 'Kill the Elders' repeating in his head nonstop. His own kind had to sooth his seething anger to protect their own exsistence, for if he went mad even for a second it would mean the end of the everything even them. He is only stopped by the demonic flute playing of his kin. But while he goes mad, his children continue his work, waiting for the day they can be free and face the Elders once more in battle at their most darkest of hours.

Somewhere in the space between Space and Time, two figures sat together. One named Nyarlathotep, dressed in his Pharaoh guise and picking at his nails. Another Yog-Sothoth, appearing as his usual slithering mass of tentacles with an orb shaped object at the center of it all. Yog looked over at Nyarlathotep in annoyance.
"Could you not do that here?" He asked him angrily.
"Not do what? Pick my nails?" Nyarlathotep lashed back at him.
"Is that what you call them? You do remember that they belong to those lesser beings, right?"
"The humans? Oh they are not all that bad. I like to play with them."
"You only like the sound they make when they breake."
"Can you blame me? I have all this power and nothing to do. No equal, or rival..." Nyarlathotep told Yog.
"What of Cthugha?" Yog asked him.
"He's no fun, takes everything so seriously."
"In his defense, you did take his sanity."
"Whatever." Nyarlathotep said put out by Yogs comment and returned to picking his nails.
"I asked you to stop that, now I'm telling you to stop." Yog grew impatient.
"You won't give me any work. You won't let me pick my nails. What exactly am I supposed to do?" Nyarlathotep asked him equally annoyed.
"Live and die. What else are you supposed to do?"
"And what do I do while I live? It gets very dull to be enternal and have little to do, even in the infinite universe."
"We could talk, that should kill a couple eons." Yog suggested.
"That could work. What's there to talk about?" Nyarlathotep said interested in what Yog had to say.
"Well you seem to be so interested in these humans, what have they done that sets them apart from the rest of the universe?"
"Ah where to begin? Have ya heard of what happend to Glaaki's spawn?"
"Thog? Yes, I have."
"Barbaric Cimmerians. Never under estimate the predecessors of the Celts." Nyarlathotep said to Yog. A moment of silence fell upon the duo as they tried to think of something that would interest the other while at the same time being new information to the other.
"..." none had an idea of what to talk about. How does one speak of something an all seeing entity doesn't already know? The two grew uncomfortable with nothing to say to each other, then finally something they didn't expect to happen happend.
"Did you feel that?" Yog asked Nyarlathotep.
"Not as well as you did, but yes nonetheless. Yog it's time, awaken the others I'll get father." Nyarlathotep said with a grin on his face. Yog began to use all his mental power to awaken his own kind.
All across the universe the Old Ones awoke. From the depths of the ocean to the furthest edge of the universe, they began to stir. An legion of abominations spread across the universe rose from their deathly slumber and migrated to one place in the univers, the center. Nyarlathotep went to control the last of them, their master and his father, Azathoth. He waited in the center of the universe soothed by the flute music.
"Good work fellows, I'll take it from here." Nyarlathotep told the flute players. He received scowls from his peers but did not care or even pay them any attention. He approached his father, a mass of tentecels with a strange aurora surrounding them and holding them together.
"Azathoth." Nyalrthotep spoke to him, getting his attention.
"It's time for you to get what you want must in the universe. It's time to kill the Elders." Azathoth began to stir. He grew restless and angry. The flute music kept his attention on Nyarlathotep allowing him to control his father.
"Follow me and you'll have what you want." Nyarlathotep promised his father. What ever bit of sanity Azathoth had left allowed him to follow his son. All the pieces were falling into place for the final war to be waged.

The Elders readied for war. They gathered in their Cathedral and spoke to another.
"Nodens has fallen into his slumber, the Old Ones are free once more." one of the Elders spoke.
"We will waste them as we have done before. There is no reason for this battle to go any different." another one answered him.
"We have grown old, they did not age and are now well rested."
"We have our experience."
"We need the youth to fight. Other wise we are mearly the few and the old versus the many and the young." The Elders paused for a moment and came to a realization.
"If we must commence the Ragnorak then we will. Let's just hope it does not come to that."

Yog-Sothoth and Nyarlathotep regrouped along with the rest of their kind. Azathoth was controlled by his flutist for the time they needed him controlled. Nyarlathotep looked around trying to find something or someone.
"What are you doing now?" Yog questioned him.
"Cthuga. He's the last thing I need to meet on this battle field." Nyarlathotep said to Yog.
"Ah yes, of all the beings in the universe and you had to become arch nemesis to your own kind."
"I've become everyone's arch nemesis at one time or another. Minus you and father."
"Yes, you only have the guts to antagonize those lesser then you."
"Or equal. My philosophy is to never get in a fight that you'll lose."
"Good philosophy."
"It has done me good for this long. Ah here are our opponents for the day." the duo looked and saw the Elders arrive. Despite their old age they were still fit warriors. If Azathoth could only see through his blind eye, no telling his reaction.
"Shall we?" Yog asked Nyarlathotep.
"Oh I insist you give the order. Odds are the others will like it better if you do." Nyarlathotep answered him.
"Very well. Halt the flute playing!" Yog ordered. Azathoth became angered. He started to lash out and attack every thing he could grasp. The Old ones stood clear and followed behinde him as he attacked the Elders army. The Elders held their ground and delt great damage twoards Azathoth but not without suffering their casualties.
It took only minutes to finish off Azathoth but now their numbers were only a handful of what they started with. The Old One had only lost Azathoth and the few flutist he destroyed himself early. Nyarlathotep and Yog looked at eachother.
"Marvelous, let's end this finally." Nyarlathotep joyously.
The Old Ones began to attack the Elders. The Elders had no choice but to preform their ultimate final solution on their creations. The Elders would have to cause Ragnorak. The last few Elders began to glow with energy and intense heat that could be felt even on Earth. The Old Ones knew what was happening.
"Didn't think they had it in them. So human of them to do the unexpected." Nyarlathotep said with joy.
"Glad this fascinates you, we're about to die." Yog told him.
"Not with the ace in the hole we have, you." Nyarlathotep looked at him.
"Just this once bend the laws of all of reality and save your kind, or just us I'm fine with either." Nyarlathotep told him.
"Your brilliant!" He yelled at Nyarlathotep.
"Of course I am." Nyarlathotep said smugly. The Elders began to erupt with pure power that obliterated them and was spreading across the universe. It all would of surely have been destroyed if, ironically enough, not for Yog-Sothoth and his Reality bending power. The universe survived but the Old Ones were nowhere to be found in the universe. That's where we come back to Earth my fair reader.
