 Why Are the Young Abandoning Party Politics?  
Today's youth is not as interested in party politics as were earlier generations. 
The parties' youth organizations have lost more than 60% of their members between 1984 and 1995 (Larsson 1995:17) and the political parties are held in low esteem by many young people. 
This is very serious according to some experts because the parties are the foundation of our political system. 
It used to be that joining a party was the natural thing to do if you wanted to get involved, but this is not the case anymore, according to the political scientists Bück and Müller (199?: 293). 
Many people are very committed to changing things, but they choose to work outside the party system. 
They will often join a non-governmental organizations, that focuses on the one issue that they feel is most important, such as human rights or the environment. 
Nevertheless, the parties are still the most important political organizations. 
Why is it that they are losing ground among young people?  
A possible cause is that young people do not like the working methods of the parties, which are often perceived as typical of the generation of politicians that are now leading them. 
The political scientist Anders Westerholm points out that it is important to differentiate between the interest in politics, which is actually increasing among the young, and the trust in politicians, which is declining (Forselius 1991:13). 
Many young people associate politics with bald middle-aged men who do not always have the best of the people in mind. 
The last years' scandals involving politicians spending tax money on foolish things, like porn clubs, have certainly not strengthened the trust in them. 
Moreover, politics is often perceived as stressful, unglamorous, and ill paid. 
The parties are hierarchically organized and it will take a long time to work your way toward the top. 
The older politicians are sometimes unwilling to let younger people into the top of the party. 
Some young members of Moderaterna complained about that recently when Bo Lundgren was elected the new leader of the party.  
Furthermore, there is a gap between the generations when it comes to what topics they consider most important, scholars claim. 
Young people are not as interested in classical political issues such as the fair distribution of wealth and resources, questions that have dominated Swedish politics for decades. 
Instead, young people tend to be more interested in "heavy" existential questions like environmental issues and their own inner growth (Forselius 1991:13). 
We are perhaps less materialistic, and the parties don't deal with the topics that we find most important.  
Another cause for young people to look to alternative ways of getting involved in politics is that they want to see results fast, and the political system cannot offer that. 
It is in its nature to work cautiously; proposals travel slowly through the political system before a decision can be taken. 
Changes do not happen overnight. 
With the new media technology information is spread around the world very quickly. 
Changes in politics and society often occur fast, and the political system cannot always keep up. 
Non-governmental organizations, so called NGOs, such as Amnesty International and Greenpeace are often considered more effective vehicles of change. 
The work of NGOs is often more visible and perhaps more "glamorous" than that of the political parties. 
Besides, it may be easier to stand behind the goals of a non-governmental organization than supporting an entire party program. 
Working for a NGO together with other people who also feel very strongly about a cause can create a sense of belonging and verify your identity. 
Bück and Müller point out that the political parties have lost their socializing function (Bück & Müller199?: 291). 
Someone who is interested in politics can turn to the media for information or join a non-governmental organization. 
There are many alternatives to the political parties.  
It is likely that the parties will remain the most important players on the political scene for many years to come. 
However, the fact that fewer and fewer young people choose to join a party is a well-established trend. 
It is impossible to make an exhaustive list of the causes of such a complex trend, but I believe that some of the most important ones are disregard for the working methods of the parties; the gap between the generations when it comes to what issues they consider most important; and the proliferation of non-governmental organizations that are perceived as better suited for dealing with the problems that arise in modern society.   
