There you go kiddin' again. But you was going to tell me about yourself.
You're Irish, of course I can tell that.

Yes, thank God, though I've not seen a sight of it in
fifteen years or more.

Sailors never do go home hardly, do they? That's
what my father was saying.

He wasn't telling no lie. It's a hard
and lonesome life, the sea is. The only women you'd meet in the ports
of the world who'd be willing to speak you a kind word isn't woman at
all. You know the kind I mane, and they're a poor, wicked lot, God
forgive them. They're looking to steal the money from you only.

I think--I
guess I'd better see what's doing inside.

Don't go, I'm
saying! Is it I've given you offence with my talk of the like of them?
Don't heed it at all! I'm clumsy in my wits when it comes to talking
proper with a girl the like of you. And why wouldn't I be? Since the
day I left home for to go to sea punching coal, this is the first time
I've had a word with a rale, dacent woman. So don't turn your back on
me now, and we beginning to be friends.

I'm not sore at you,
honest.

God bless you!

But if you honestly think the
sea's such a rotten life, why don't you get out of it?

Work on land, is it? Digging spuds in the muck from dawn to dark, I suppose?
I wasn't made for it, Miss.

I thought you'd say that.

But there's good jobs and bad jobs at sea,
like there'd be on land. I'm thinking if it's in the stokehole of a
proper liner I was, I'd be able to have a little house and be home to
it wan week out of four. And I'm thinking that maybe then I'd have the
luck to find a fine dacent girl--the like of yourself, now--would be
willing to wed with me.

Why, sure.
Why not?

Then you think a girl the
like of yourself might maybe not mind the past at all but only be
seeing the good herself put in me?

Why, sure.

She'd not be sorry for it, I'd take my oath!
'Tis no more drinking and roving about I'd be doing then, but giving my
pay day into her hand and staying at home with her as meek as a lamb
each night of the week I'd be in port.
