  		His eyes should flash with an inborn fire,
                  His brow with scorn be wrung;
               He never should bow down to a domineering frown,
                  Or the tang of a tyrant tongue.
               His foot should stamp and his throat should growl,
               His hair should twirl and his face should scowl;

  His eyes should flash and his breast protrude,
               And this should be his customary attitude--

His foot should stamp, etc.


 It is useless--Sir Joseph's attentions nauseate me. I know
  that he is a truly great and good man, for he told me so himself, but to
  me he seems tedious, fretful, and dictatorial. Yet his must be a mind
  of no common order, or he would not dare to teach my dear father to
  dance a hornpipe on the cabin table. Ralph Rackstraw!
 

 Aye, lady--no other than poor Ralph Rackstraw!

 How my heart beats! And why poor, Ralph?

I am poor in the essence of happiness, lady--rich only
in never- ending unrest. In me there meet a combination of antithetical elements
  which are at eternal war with one another. Driven hither by
  objective influences--thither by subjective emotions--wafted one moment
  into blazing day, by mocking hope--plunged the next into the Cimmerian
  darkness of tangible despair, I am but a living ganglion of
  irreconcilable antagonisms. I hope I make myself clear, lady?

Perfectly. His simple eloquence goes to my heart.
  Oh, if I dared--but no, the thought is madness! Dismiss these
  foolish fancies, they torture you but needlessly. Come, make one effort.

I will--one. Josephine!

Sir!

Aye, even though Jove's armoury were launched at the
  head of the audacious mortal whose lips, unhallowed by relationship, dared to
  breathe that precious word, yet would I breathe it once, and then
  perchance be silent evermore. Josephine, in one brief breath I will
  concentrate the hopes, the doubts, the anxious fears of six weary months.
  Josephine, I am a British sailor, and I love you!

Sir, this audacity! Oh, my heart, my beating heart!
This unwarrantable presumption on the part of a common
  sailor! Common! oh, the irony of the word! 
  Oh, sir, you forget the disparity in our ranks.
