
Instead of doin' your rightful work ye've been below here
gossipin' old women's talk with that boy. Get out
o' this you! Clean up the chart room. Pick up that dish, Mr. Steward!

Yes, sir.

The next dish you break, Mr. Steward, you take a bath in the
Behring Sea at the end of a rope.

Yes, sir.

I warn't 'specially anxious the man at the wheel should catch what
I wanted to say to you, sir. That's why I asked you to come below.

Speak your say, Mr. Slocum.

I'm afeared there'll be
trouble with the hands by the look o' things. They'll likely turn ugly,
every blessed one o' them, if you don't put back. The two years they
signed up for is up to-day.

And d'you think you're tellin' me something new, Mr. Slocum?
I've felt it in the air this long time past. D'you think I've not seen
their ugly looks and the grudgin' way they worked?

Well, Annie?

David, I--

Wait!

Yes, sir.

D'you want anything, Annie?

I thought maybe--I'd go up on deck, David, to
get a breath of fresh air.

It's too cold, Annie. You'd best stay below. There's nothing to
look at on deck--but ice.

I know--ice, ice, ice! But there's nothing
to see down here but these walls.

You can play the organ, Annie.

I hate the organ. It puts me in mind of home.

I got it jest for you!

I know. Ah, water!
Clear water! As far as I can see! How good it looks after all these
months of ice!  Ah, now I must go up on deck and look at it, David!

Best not to-day, Annie. Best wait for a day when
the sun shines.

But the sun never shines in this terrible
place.

Best not to-day, Annie.

Very well, David.

Annie!

Yes, David.

Me and Mr. Slocum has business to talk about--ship's business.

Very well, David.

Best not have her on deck if they's goin' to be any trouble.

Yes, sir.

And trouble they's going to be. I feel it in my bones. Got your'n?

Yes, sir.

Not that we'll have to use 'em--not if I know their breed of
dog--jest to frighten 'em up a bit. I ain't never been
forced to use one yit; and trouble I've had by land and by sea s'long as
I kin remember, and will have till my dyin' day, I reckon.

Then you ain't goin'--to turn back?

Turn back! Mr. Slocum, did you ever hear o' me pointin' s'uth
for home with only a measly four hundred barrel of ile in the hold?
