 TV Moral  You can see people beheading each other, or tearing out the entrails from a man. 
But if you even think that you saw a naked body, it is censored away. 
This or something near it is the truth in modern television. 
Something natural as nakedness and sex is shunned like sin, but mutilation and killing is an everyday rule on TV.   	
You can hear everyday about violence is getting worse and more brutal, and that it is TVs fault. 
But there are no scientific proofs for that. 
I think that many things have a part in this. 
People that are growing up without both parents, or parents that abuse substances. 
Even lack of attention and things to do have a part in this. 
People that are week of mind will easily slip into violence. 
That is the way it is. 
I have even heard that the violence hasn't increased, it's just that it is brought to attention more these days. 
That things people accepted in the past isn't accepted anymore. 
But all agree that it is more brutal and aggressive nowadays.   
Violence on TV doesn't always have to be bad, and there are different kinds of violence. 
The bad is the pure entertaining one that is completely unrealistic and out of proportion. 
Where you can see guys being beaten with iron bars and then stand up as if it were noting at all. 
That is unrealistic and can make people believe that it isn't dangerous to go out and hit others. 
More realistic violence is better as it shows what can happen to the victim. 
Educational movies about violence are a very good way to show what can happen. 
If it also is a lecturer there to discuss the impact of violence it can be real good.   	
Another hot issue is that porno movies increases the number of rapes and other sexual related crimes committed. 
In the beginning of this debate it was about violent porno movies but now, somehow, it is all kind of porn and nakedness that is discussed. 
Even here I can't believe that porno movies are the sole perpetrator, there are many facts that contribute as with increased violence. 
A combination of the two and also that these things are reported more. 
In this issue the religious have taken side with the antiporn side. 
That makes me agitated, because the little I know about religion is that it is a sin to kill. 
But sex in itself isn't a sin. 
So why this aggressive campaign against nakedness on TV during all these years, but nothing about the increase in violence in entertaining movies. 
It is also the general opinion in the population as a whole. 
That violence is all right but sex is shameful, something you do closed up and locked in, in your bedroom. 
How do all these people think they were made? 
That their parent's one day just found them in their bed? 
I can't even start to imagine how these people think.   
Whatever that you think of the impact TV can have on the development of individuals, you must agree that it do affect in a small way, as all else in life. 
There is ways to stop youths from seeing the worst things on TV, and there are coming more. 
And I think it is good as long as it is the family that has the responsibility to decide what their children should be allowed to see. 
The Government and Broadcasting companies can always come with suggestions, but that is what it should be, suggestions. 
If you try to form laws you should be careful because censorship can be dangerous. 
But there still exist some censorship and almost all accept that there always will be some. 
It is said to be for the greater good and people accept this small limitation.
