 English, My English!  
I feel so fortunate to have a second language. 
Having English as my second language I can be understood by billions of people throughout the world. 
I can understand people whose daily life and culture are very unfamiliar to me, and through English can be my closest friends. 
What a feeling! 
In the Spring of 1998, I was granted a scholarship to study at an American university. 
I studied photography, French, and Spanish, but I also took the opportunity to take English courses at different levels.  
Reading books in English was rather new to me before I left Sweden for America. 
Of course, I had struggled through Conrad's "Heart of Darkness" and other compulsory novels to read in upper secondary school, but I couldn't really enjoy a novel, or get the feeling of it, as I always fell into, what I would like to call it, the look-up-words-addiction. 
Spending half an hour reading one page in a paper back, looking up every single word I didn't get a satisfactory grasp of, I easily got tired of reading. 
Once I realised I didn't have to look up all words I didn't comprehend to get the context of the novel, I began to read with pleasure.  	
Reading and listening are two totally different components of a language. 
A word can sound so different from what you've seen it spelled in books. 
Leaving for America I was rather confident in listening at British and American English, that is the standard versions. 
I knew before arriving at Savannah Airport that Savannians tend to have a southern drawl. 
Everything seemed to go smoothly until that day when I tried to get access to my e-mail account at my school's computer laboratory. 
I had to ask an assistant for help. 
He told me to type in the password "pine". 
But that man did not pronounce pine as I would. 
I looked at him, put my fingers on the keyboard and typed p-a-a-n. 
He said, "NO, NO, listen to me, PINE!"  
Once again he did the southern drawl with a noticeable impatience in his voice. 
My fingers started trembling as I typed p-a-n. 
"Oh, no", he said, gave me an indication to remove my hands from the key board, and typed p-i-n-e. 
"Ya know, the tree!?!" 
"Oh, you mean pine!", I exclaimed triumphant. 
He mumbled "Yeah" and walked away. 
I could read his mind thinking "those stupid foreigners". 
As I've always imitated people, I truly enjoy listening to different dialects and accents. 
Walking through a market place in London, hearing men shouting in true Cockney-English or listening as two black women are having a violent discussion in Ebonics really makes my day.  	
As my listening skills are rather good, my writing skills are not as developed. 
Only writing one, two-page essay per year in upper secondary school, I never got enough training to enhance my ability to write good essays and papers. 
The previous year, I got to improve my writing skills through writing papers on current issues, such as affirmative action. 
Planning to write the essay one week in advance to make sure that I will have time to revise it once or twice, I often end up writing it the night before it is due, and typing it in the morning.  	
Well, sometimes you just can't postpone things. 
That is true when you're in a play. 
December 2 1998, it was time for me and my co-star to step out on the stage for our opening night. 
I did my first attempt to act in English. 
It was a one-act play called "Ariel Bright". 
(Ariel was the name of the leading role, and I was to interpret it). 
I spend many hours memorising lines and trying to get the right intonations at the right places. 
It wasn't an easy game, but I did good. 
Since I often forget to articulate as I speak (even in Swedish), I had to work on that. 
Even after the play I reminded myself to articulate and it gave results. 
I didn't have to repeat myself as often as I usually did. 
Spending my daily life in America I naturally learned to take part in relaxed conversations in English. 
That way I learnt new idiomatic expressions and words that I wouldn't be taught in school for various reasons. 
Only after a few days of living in America I started to think, dream, and react in English. 
If I suddenly got surprised a Swedish "AH!" 
didn't come out of my mouth, rather a HOLY COW!"  	
Though I think it is very important to keep one's native language closest to heart, (as culture and childhood memories are connected to language), I still want to become as fluent in English as I am in Swedish. 
That is my goal.
