
  We sail the ocean blue,
  And our saucy ship's a beauty;
  We're sober men and true,
  And attentive to our duty.
  When the balls whistle free
  O'er the bright blue sea,
  We stand to our guns all day;
  When at anchor we ride
  On the Portsmouth tide,
  We have plenty of time to play.

      
       Hail, men-o'-war's men-safeguards of your nation
       Here is an end, at last, of all privation;
       You've got your play--spare all you can afford
       To welcome Little Buttercup on board.

                          

       For I'm called Little Buttercup--dear Little Buttercup,
          Though I could never tell why,
       But still I'm called Buttercup--poor little Buttercup,
          Sweet Little Buttercup I!

       I've snuff and tobaccy, and excellent jacky,
            I've scissors, and watches, and knives
       I've ribbons and laces to set off the faces
            Of pretty young sweethearts and wives.

       I've treacle and toffee, I've tea and I've coffee,
            Soft tommy and succulent chops;
       I've chickens and conies, and pretty polonies,
            And excellent peppermint drops.
Then buy of your Buttercup--dear Little Buttercup;
            Sailors should never be shy;
       So, buy of your Buttercup--poor Little Buttercup;
            Come, of your Buttercup buy!

Aye, Little Buttercup--and well called--for you're the rosiest,
  the roundest, and the reddest beauty in all Spithead.

 Red, am I? and round--and rosy! Maybe, for I have
  dissembled well!
  But hark ye, my merry friend--hast ever thought that beneath a
  gay and
  frivolous exterior there may lurk a canker-worm which is slowly
  but
  surely eating its way into one's very heart?

No, my lass, I can't say I've ever thought that.

 I have thought it often.

Yes, you look like it! What's the matter with the man?
  Isn't he well?

 Don't take no heed of him; that's only poor Dick Deadeye.

I say--it's a beast of a name, ain't it--Dick Deadeye?

It's not a nice name.

I'm ugly too, ain't I?

You are certainly plain.

And I'm three-cornered too, ain't I?

You are rather triangular.

Ha! ha! That's it. I'm ugly, and they hate me for it; for you all
  hate me, don't you?


                       Enter RALPH from hatchway

