I used to think that since I had no problems understanding written or spoken English and furthermore had no real problems communicating my own thoughts and ideas using this, my second language, I was in no need of further studies in this particular field. 
Now I see that this was nothing more than a rather ignorant and indeed also quite smug thought. 
Today I am aware of both my strengths and my weaknesses when it comes to English. 
Obviously the weaknesses are a bit more depressing to ponder on, but nonetheless I feel that they are more important for me to be aware of than my strengths, for reasons that I will state further on. 
Let us instead begin with the bright sides of my skills in English. 
As I began studying literature at the university, my personal interest for English literature grew and I soon began to noticed that my English wasn't good enough to make the detailed text analyses I wanted to do. 
However my English has improved considerably since then, due to a massive exposure to written and spoken English. 
I have no problems understanding the meaning of a written text in English as long as it doesn't deal with a highly specialised field to which I am not familiar. 
Neither do I find it very hard to understand spoken English. 
Though I must confess that travelling around the Irish countryside gave me considerable doubts about whether I really had any capability at all to understand spoken English. 
Malicious rumours probably claim that any problems I might have with listening to and understanding English lies in the simple fact that I am a bad listener whatever language I'm being addressed with. 
I repel such suggestions strongly. 
When it comes to my own use of English I find, as stated above, that I have no big problems communicating with English-speaking people. 
I have no fears whatsoever for ever finding myself in a situation where I can't make myself understood in English. 
The grammar may not be perfect or even tolerable, but still I feel confident that the meaning of my grammatically incorrect inarticulate sounds will get across to whomever I'm talking to. 
After all the ability of making oneself understood in any case of emergency must be the primary goal when learning another language at a very basic level. 
So far my strengths while it comes to my skills in English at a basic level. 
Let us move on to my weaknesses. 
I mentioned earlier that I felt that my English simply wasn't good enough when I began studying at the University. 
As I have a great interest in English literature I wanted to apply my brand new skills at interpreting and analysing literary texts on the works I loved. 
Much to my disappointment I found that I was in a sense handicapped. 
I didn't have that good ear for the language that you so desperately need to determine the true value of words, and to be able to find the subtle differences of meaning. 
This is something that is crucial when analysing literary works, and indeed also spoken English in detail. 
I still suffer from this handicap and I hope that I will be able to improve my ear for the language soon. 
Another weakness that asserts itself when I write and speak English is my lacking grammatical knowledge. 
Most of the times I probably use the right forms, but then again most of those times I have no idea whatsoever why I chose the form I did. 
I used to think that this wasn't really important, but now I realise that this is something that you simply have to know if you want to get a deeper understanding of the language. 
Finally, I just want to return to what I said about the importance of knowing ones weaknesses rather than ones strengths. 
The main reason for focusing on weaknesses is of course that if you want to get better at something, in this case understanding and using English, you will inevitably have to work hardest on your weak spots. 
There is no other way. 
However you shouldn't forget your strengths, because they are what keeps you going when you feel that your weaknesses threatens to overpower you.
