
          Gaily tripping,
                 Lightly skipping,
               Flock the maidens to the shipping.
   Flags and guns and pennants dipping!

               All the ladies love the shipping.
         Sailors sprightly
                 Always rightly
               Welcome ladies so politely.

    Ladies who can smile so brightly,
               Sailors welcome most politely.

 Now give three cheers, I'll lead the way

          Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah! hurray!

  
                        I am the monarch of the sea,
                        The ruler of the Queen's Navee,
                      Whose praise Great Britain loudly chants.

  And we are his sisters, and his cousins and his aunts!

And we are his sisters, and his cousins, and his aunts!

When at anchor here I ride, My bosom swells with pride,

And I snap my fingers at a foeman's taunts;

 And so do his sisters, and his cousins, and his aunts!

 And so do his sisters, and his cousins, and his aunts!

 But when the breezes blow,  I generally go below,
And seek the seclusion that a cabin grants;

And so do his sisters, and his cousins, and his aunts!

     And so do his sisters, and his cousins, and his aunts!
                      His sisters and his cousins,
                      Whom he reckons up by dozens,
                        And his aunts!

            When I was a lad I served a term
            As office boy to an Attorney's firm.
            I cleaned the windows and I swept the floor,
            And I polished up the handle of the big front door.
                 I polished up that handle so carefullee
                 That now I am the Ruler of the Queen's Navee!

            As office boy I made such a mark
            That they gave me the post of a junior clerk.
            I served the writs with a smile so bland,
            And I copied all the letters in a big round hand--
                 I copied all the letters in a hand so free,
                 That now I am the Ruler of the Queen's Navee!


       
