Bow impressively ere you glide.
                                                            
Capital both, capital both--you've caught it nicely!
That is the style of thing precisely!

Capital both, capital both--they've caught it nicely!
That is the style of thing precisely!

Oh, sweet to earn a nobleman's praise!
Capital both, capital both--we've caught it nicely!

Supposing he's right in what he says,
This is the style of thing precisely!

   The old birds have gone away and left the
  young chickens together.  That's called tact.

It's very awkward.  We really ought to tell her how we
  are situated.  It's not fair to the girl.
Then why don't you do it?

I'd rather not--you.

 I don't know how to begin. 
  Er--Madam--I--we, that is, several of us--

Gentlemen, I am bound to listen to you; but it is
  right to tell you that, not knowing I was married in infancy, I
  am over head and ears in love with somebody else.

Our case exactly!  We are over head and ears in love
  with somebody else! In point of fact, with our wives!

  Your wives!  Then you are married?

It's not our fault.

We knew nothing about it.

We are sisters in misfortune.

My good girls, I don't blame you.  Only before we go
  any further we must really arrive at some satisfactory
  arrangement, or we shall get hopelessly complicated.

	     Here is a case unprecedented!
                 Here are a King and Queen ill-starred!
            Ever since marriage was first invented
                 Never was known a case so hard!

	 I may be said to have been bisected,
          By a profound catastrophe!

    	Through a calamity unexpected
         I am divisible into three!

 			O moralists all,
                      How can you call
                 Marriage a state of unitee,
            When excellent husbands are bisected,
                 And wives divisible into three?
                      O moralists all,
                      How can you call
                 Marriage a state of union true?

           One-third of myself is married to half of ye
              or you,

  When half of myself has married one-third of ye or you?

