     In serving writs I made such a name
            That an articled clerk I soon became;
            I wore clean collars and a brand-new suit
            For the pass examination at the Institute,
                 And that pass examination did so well for me,
                 That now I am the Ruler of the Queen's Navee!

 
            Of legal knowledge I acquired such a grip
            That they took me into the partnership.
            And that junior partnership, I ween,
            Was the only ship that I ever had seen.
                 But that kind of ship so suited me,
                 That now I am the Ruler of the Queen's Navee!


            I grew so rich that I was sent
            By a pocket borough into Parliament.
            I always voted at my party's call,
            And I never thought of thinking for myself at all.
                 I thought so little, they rewarded me
	By making me the Ruler of the Queen's Navee!

 

            Now landsmen all, whoever you may be,
            If you want to rise to the top of the tree,
            If your soul isn't fettered to an office stool,
            Be careful to be guided by this golden rule--
                 Stick close to your desks and never go to sea,
                 And you all may be rulers of the Queen's Navee!


You've a remarkably fine crew, Captain Corcoran.

It is a fine crew, Sir Joseph.

  A British sailor is a splendid fellow, Captain Corcoran.

A splendid fellow indeed, Sir Joseph.

I hope you treat your crew kindly, Captain Corcoran.

Indeed I hope so, Sir Joseph.

Never forget that they are the bulwarks of England's greatness, Captain Corcoran.

So I have always considered them, Sir Joseph.

No bullying, I trust--no strong language of any kind, eh?

Oh, never, Sir Joseph.

What, never?

Hardly ever, Sir Joseph. They are an excellent crew, and do their
  work thoroughly without it.

Don't patronise them, sir--pray, don't patronise them.

Certainly not, Sir Joseph.

That you are their captain is an accident of birth.I
  cannot permit these noble fellows to be patronised because an
  accident of birth has placed you above them and them below you.


