                             
     
  	        Sir, you are sad! The silent eloquence
                 Of yonder tear that trembles on your eyelash
                 Proclaims a sorrow far more deep than common;
                 Confide in me--fear not--I am a mother!

    	        Yes, Little Buttercup, I'm sad and sorry--
                 My daughter, Josephine, the fairest flower
                 That ever blossomed on ancestral timber,
                 Is sought in marriage by Sir Joseph Porter,
                 Our Admiralty's First Lord, but for some reason
                 She does not seem to tackle kindly to it.

    		 Ah, poor Sir Joseph! Ah, I know too well
                 The anguish of a heart that loves but vainly!
                 But see, here comes your most attractive daughter.
                 I go--Farewell!
 
 A plump and pleasing person!
 

            Sorry her lot who loves too well,
               Heavy the heart that hopes but vainly,
            Sad are the sighs that own the spell,
               Uttered by eyes that speak too plainly;
                 Heavy the sorrow that bows the head
                 When love is alive and hope is dead!

            Sad is the hour when sets the sun--
 	Dark is the night to earth's poor daughters,
            When to the ark the wearied one
               Flies from the empty waste of waters!
                 Heavy the sorrow that bows the head
                 When love is alive and hope is dead!



 My child, I grieve to see that you are a prey to
  melancholy. You should look your best to-day, for Sir Joseph Porter, K.C.B., will
  be here this afternoon to claim your promised hand.

Ah, father, your words cut me to the quick. I can esteem--
  reverence--venerate Sir Joseph, for he is a great and good man;
  but oh, I cannot love him! My heart is already given.

It is then as I feared. (Aloud.) Given? And to whom? Not
to some gilded lordling?

No, father--the object of my love is no lordling. Oh, pity
  me, for he is but a humble sailor on board your own ship!


