  For I hold that on the seas The expression, "if you please",
A particularly gentlemanly tone implants.

And so do his sisters, and his cousins, and his aunts!

And so do his sisters, and his cousins, and his aunts!

Ah! Sir Joseph's true gentleman; courteous and considerate to the
very humblest.

True, Boatswain, but we are not the very humblest. Sir Joseph has explained our true position to us. As he says, a British seaman is
any man's equal excepting his, and if Sir Joseph says that, is it not our
duty to believe him?

Well spoke! well spoke!

You're on a wrong tack, and so is he. He means well, but he don't
  know. When people have to obey other people's orders, equality's
  out of the question.

Horrible! horrible!

Dick Deadeye, if you go for to infuriate this here ship's
  company too far, I won't answer for being able to hold 'em in. I'm
  shocked! that's what I am--shocked!
 Messmates, my mind's made up. I'll speak to the  captain's
  daughter, and tell her, like an honest man, of the honest love I have for
  her.

Aye, aye!

Is not my love as good as another's? Is not my heart as true as
  another's? Have I not hands and eyes and ears and limbs like
  another?

Aye, Aye!

True, I lack birth--

You've a berth on board this very ship.

Well said--I had forgotten that. Messmates--what do yousay? Do
you approve my determination?

We do.

I don t.

What is to be done with this here hopeless chap? Let us
sing him the song that Sir Joseph has kindly composed for us. Perhaps it will
bring this here miserable creetur to a proper state of mind.

               A British tar is a soaring soul,
                  As free as a mountain bird,
               His energetic fist should be ready to resist
                  A dictatorial word.
               His nose should pant and his lip should curl,
               His cheeks should flame and his brow should furl,
               His bosom should heave and his heart should glow,
               And his fist be ever ready for a knock-down blow.

 
             
